[music]
We don't think AI is a bubble, but we
want to now expand our investment
universe of how to capitalize on this
new technology.
>> We should stay risk on, but also
thinking about which are the parts of
the market to be dipping into.
>> We are not hitting a wall. These things
happen in a hyperrowth capex cycle.
>> How do we get to year round? You just
get volatility to calm down a little
bit. The [music] narratives will get
even scarier, but that's an even greater
opportunity to be able to put capital to
work.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks trying to rally for
a second straight session with futures
adding [music] to Friday's gains and
hopes of a December Fed rate cut. You
can see those futures up to ten of a
percent. Oil easing amid ongoing
negotiations to end the Russia [music]
Ukraine war with the US pushing a
28point peace plan and all eyes now
turning to a drip feed of data trickling
out of the federal government post
shutdown with retail sales and inflation
due to due out tomorrow. Danny, a real
question here about how much they can
fortify some of the bets that came
[music] into place on Friday.
>> Plenty to keep us busy heading into the
holiday shortened week. But yes, it was
yes last week the kind of three bears
come to realize it [music] was the Fed,
it was AI and it was credit. It's hard
to see how the AI and credit thing
[music] resolve itself one week. The
thing that saved us at the end of last
week that could continue this week is
the Fed and those dreams of a cut come
to realize.
>> What's so interesting is, and I'm sure
you've been reading [music] all of the
next a full year ahead kinds of outlooks
that we've been getting dripping into
our inboxes. I feel bad for people
trying to come up with a crystal ball
because good luck with that. But they
all seem [music] really positive. there
is a buy the dip kind of moment. So
where is that optimism coming from if it
isn't coming from some resolution to
what you're saying of the AI and credit?
Does it all sort of get [music]
predicated on the Federal Reserve and
earnings? Everyone is pointing to
earnings just to point out how strong
they are, how resilient corporate
America [music] has been April this time
this year. It could not be further from
the truth. So we're getting into this
place again into 2025. Things look
[music] rosy for 2026, but again, we
were very wrong at this time last year.
So who's to say we're not wrong again?
we probably will be. Nonetheless, it's
good to get a read of the temperature.
You talk about the corporate earning
scene and there have been a number of
stories written recently about how
little companies [music] really have
been impacted by tariffs, how it has
sort of fallen back as some sort of
issue that they really are focused on.
This morning, [music] President Trump
truthing active truthing at 6:00 a.m.
Eastern. The full benefit of tariffs has
not yet been calculated and that many of
the buyers of goods and [music] products
in order to avoid paying tariffs in the
short term stock up by purchasing far
more inventory. the benefit will come
[music] to fruition. How much is this
getting reintroduced in terms of an
issue that could potentially come to the
four and be a node of uncertainty once
again? I got to say this almost feels
like a warning for corporate [music]
America saying you stocked up and you
avoided my tariffs. That's going to end
soon and you won't be able to end it. He
also ends the truth talking about the
Supreme Court. This is on his mind. The
Supreme Court has been really negative
on the AIPA [music] case coming before
them as he's saying it doesn't matter
what happens at the Supreme Court. This
is important [music] for us. There's a
benefit for America and corporate
America. Pay attention because you two
are going to have to pay.
>> Yeah. And we're going to be catching up
with Commerce [music] Secretary Howard
Lutnik later this hour. A real question
around the European US relationship, not
only from a trade perspective, [music]
but also when it comes to Ukraine,
Russia, and how those negotiations
continue. That 28-point [music]
plan very much in focus this morning.
It's going to take a mammoth task to get
that passed to get the Europeans and the
Ukrainians to agree to something like
that [music] just because it is kind of
the worst fear come to fruition that you
had a plan talked between the US and
Russia and kind of shoved [music] upon
Ukraine. It complicates the task of
Howard Lutnik as he goes to negotiate
with the [music] Europeans. Right now,
we are seeing that optimistic tone,
although just building on Friday's
[music] gains, but you could see across
the board a lift to S&P futures, an even
bigger lift to NASDAQ futures, up to ten
of a percent on the S&P. Euro gaining
just about a quarter of a percent
[music] versus the dollar, 11542.
10-year yields just dipping by two basis
points. Crude significantly lower. And
last week, we saw uh crude traded on the
NX down [music] 3.4% 4% in anticipation
of some of these peace negotiations
between Ukraine and Russia. Coming up
this hour, Katrina Dudley of Franklin
Templeton as stocks [music] look to find
their footing. Marissa Adams of HSBC and
why companies see increasing global
trade in the years ahead. And don't miss
this. US commerce secretary Howard
Lutnik with trade talks underway between
the US and the European Union. We begin
this hour with stocks pushing higher as
markets await a key week of data.
Katrina Dudley of Franklin Templeton
writing, "We see the recent market
volatility as a chance to reassess
portfolios. Strategic reallocations
could be especially rewarding as
volatility often precedes periods of
renewed growth." Katrina joins us now.
Katrina, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Great. Thank you.
>> It seems like you fit in the category of
buy the dip and that last week and the
week before's volatility was simply a
buying opportunity in select areas. Am I
getting that right?
>> Yes, you are. Have a look at the the
market. Have a look at how bearish and
neutral the market is. It's like 68% of
investors are in either that bearish or
neutral camp. So, you're buying these
dips, but you're also buying into what
we call this wall of skepticism. It's
not necessarily a wall of of worry, but
the skepticism and that skepticism is
predicated on concerns as as Danny just
said about your AI, about private
credit, and obviously what's going to
happen with the Fed at their December
meeting. So those three things are kind
of weighing on investors minds, but we
actually see going into 2026 a very
optimistic scenario playing out.
>> So we're going to get to AI and some of
the questions around the debt build out
in a minute. I am curious though just
about the state of the consumer and how
important that is
>> heading into next year to determine
whether you can see this melt up the
7,800 predictions for the S&P at the end
of next year. How crucial is this season
of retail spending? Um, I think we're
going to have three earnings reports
this week, which will give us a little
bit of kind of the the feel of where the
consumer is at. So, you want to watch
those earnings reports carefully. The
second thing though is we're watching
into the Christmas season and what is
happening during that holiday season and
spending because we do need to have a
baseline consumer that is continuing to
spend. Now, from a perspective of the
tariffs, you're right. A lot of
companies have forward bought inventory.
So, we don't think there's going to be
quite as much sticker shock as as people
walk into retailers. And I think
finally, you know, we are talking about
a shortened week from a trading
perspective, but let's be clear, it's
Black Friday, so we're going to have
people on the ground and we're really
going to get that data so much quicker
this time around. So we're going to have
a real temperature check on the consumer
and I think that that is going to be the
underpinnings and the start of
addressing some of this reticence we've
seen in the market. But we've known that
the consumer has continued to spend. How
do you weigh up if you continue if you
get some of that strong data from Black
Friday versus the AI and credit parts of
the narrative? If that continues to look
shaky, can the consumer kind of supplant
that and win out and allow a rally to
continue? I think what's the shakiness
is people are just wondering about how
are we going to fund all of this AI
capex but let's take a look at what you
know the real arbiter of how markets
work and it's earnings growth and going
into the third quarter the expectations
for earnings growth was 6.5% and we came
in at 1515 so companies are really
starting to earn and yes we do hear the
narrative about concerns on debt
leverage and AI but I look at the
breadth of where AI spending is
happening. I look at a company like
ourselves, we have a pristine balance
sheet and we're investing significant
amounts of money into AI in various
parts of our business and we're not
using leverage to do that.
>> Well, is it fair to argue though that
we've at least shifted, we're not saying
this is a bubble bursting, but we've at
least shifted into a phase where it's
cautious evaluation for AI companies.
And if that's the phase that we're in
now, what does that mean about how much
more juice can be squeezed out of the AI
trade and have these mega cap companies
really support the overall market?
>> Look, you've gone in terms of AI from
having this kind of use cases and you
know 400 use cases what we started, we
then narrowed it down and now we're
starting at that phase of we need to get
those use cases into production and
that's the part of AI that you're really
talking about and I do think it's so
important. It's taking use cases into
production and then seeing the returns
from that production. And we're now
actually starting to see the ability to
calculate some of those returns in areas
where it was a little more difficult. So
how many hours of time saved for a high,
you know, an expensive executive do we
get from using an AI summarization or an
agentic AI tool to generate information
for them? So we're now actually starting
to see calculations of time saving.
We're also starting to see, you know,
calculations of are there cost savings
associated with this and it's the ROI
and the need for ROI that I think is
going to be the next underpinning of
what is a bullish AI narrative.
>> Meanwhile, with AI definitely on the
back burner and a question of how much
patience investors have, there's also a
question of how much stimulus there will
be pumped into the market early next
year. Uh I'm I'm watching the headlines
drop about President Trump clearly very
focused in cost of living. We've seen
certain tariffs rolled back. A real
question of what happens if the Supreme
Court overturns the existing tariffs.
How much are you looking to both the
Federal Reserve to cut rates, but also
to some sort of fiscal impetus at the
beginning of 2026 to fuel some sort of
upside across the board? I think as we
look into December and I I look at rate
cut expectations just a few weeks ago, I
mean, the the the market's really
telling you that December we're not
likely to see a cut. And the reason is
is that the the Fed has been so much
behind that we are data dependent and
one of the unfortunate consequences of
the shutdown is some of this data is
going to be delayed and the most
important piece of deater on the jobs
front is actually going to be delayed
until after that meeting. So I think
that from a Fed perspective with a
degree of caution, they're likely to
enter into that December meeting with
the data is not here. We don't want to
cut too much more and they're going to
punt that into next year. So that
increases the likelihood that next year
we may have a small cut, but the fact is
let's go back to the inflation number
and that's really the part of this
equation we are focused on. you know,
inflation continues to not be contained
and so we need to be cautious because if
we don't get inflation, you back with a
two handle on it on a long-term basis,
the ability of the Fed to cut, we think,
is really hamstrung given some of the
employment numbers.
>> So, highest conviction, long stocks,
short bonds, or long stocks, neutral
bonds?
>> My my conviction is continuing to be
long in the market. And I think that
what we keep going back to is the fact
that the there's skepticism. there's
really this idea that we um we're seeing
a skeptic investor. So we think it is an
opportunity to add and then finally we
like the breadth. I mean that's the real
thing that I think is even during this
year has been clouded is we went into
this year saying we wanted to have
breadth in the market. We started to see
it but then the mag 7 with all of this
AI rhetoric you know accelerated again
and I think going into 26 our call is
for a continued expansion of breadth in
the market. So it's focusing on, you
know, the 493 stocks as we talk about
that really are going to drive the
market.
>> Great hopes and dreams of the equal 493
or the equal weight S&P 500. Katrina
Dudley, great to see you. Thank you so
much for being here. Katrina Dudley of
Franklin Templeton. We are getting some
headlines. Uh reported by Politico that
Trump's healthc care plan sees a 2-year
ACA subsidy extension. Danny, really
interesting to see how this narrative
has flipped after the reopening of the
government and a clear focus after the
mid midterms on uh cost of living
concerns. I
>> say because it's not just healthcare,
it's also been trying to bring down
tariffs with Brazil. It's been the
administration going out there and
talking about the need to cut to help
housing. It's a Trump and a hassid.
Everyone is concentrated on this issue
of affordability. It's underscoring
everything. And again, healthcare, this
was the sticking point for reopening the
government. It was a GOP that said we'll
vote on it again in December to allow
the Dems to come around and vote. So,
it's interesting to see the president
come out and say something like this. Of
course, he hasn't said it in its
reporting, but allow for that 2-year
extension to ACA. Yeah, and we're
expecting more details. Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson over the weekend
saying that he was going to unveil some
more details on healthcare. This is
perhaps some of that. We will bring more
to you as we get it. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here is your Bloomberg
brief with Vonnie Quinn. Vonyie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Well, as you've been
saying, Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant, saying the Trump administration
is planning a healthcare announcement
this week. Bessent is urging Republicans
to come up with a plan by January 30th
to address health insurance [music]
premiums. The premiums are set to spike
when subsidies expire at the end of the
year.
Several airlines are cancelling flights
to and from Venezuela after the US
issued an advisory urging operators to
exercise caution amid an escalating
standoff between the two countries.
>> [music]
>> The FAA has also reported rising
interference with navigation systems in
Venezuelan airspace.
President Donald Trump active on social
media this morning, posting on Truth
Social despite the massive amount of
money being made by the US as a direct
result of tariffs being charged to other
countries. The full benefit has not yet
been calculated. [music]
Trump also weighing in on yesterday's
New York Giants football game, writing,
quote, "Why did the New York Football
Giants not kick that field goal? Who
would have done such a thing? It was
crazy. Well, that [music] is your
Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
>> Thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next,
peace talk progress.
>> I think we've made good progress. So,
we're worked through uh u making some
changes, getting closer to something
that both both Ukraine and obviously the
United States are very comfortable with.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joining
[music] us next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Welcome back to Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music] Futures trying to take that lift
from Friday and extend it with a little
bit of a rebound with all the year-
ahead forecasts. talking about some sort
of buy the dip moment, sort of a tepid
buy the dip moment. Futures up only a
tenth of a percent for the S&P. [music]
Euro gaining just a bit. 10-year yields
just a touch lower, two basis points.
Crude very much in focus with the
ongoing talks between Ukraine and
Russia. Crude down4% today. Last [music]
week, tra crude traded on the NSX down
3.4%
some of the lowest levels [music] since
October. Under surveillance this
morning, peace talk progress.
It is in my personal view that we've had
probably the most productive and
meaningful meeting so far and I think
we've made good progress. So, we're
working through uh um making some
changes, some adjustments in the hopes
of furthering narrowing the differences
and getting closer to something that
both both Ukraine and obviously the
United States are very comfortable with.
>> Here's [music] the latest. US and
Ukrainian officials making progress on a
new version of a peace plan ahead of
President Trump's Thanksgiving deadline.
Bloomberg's Oliver Crook joining us now
from Brussels. Ali, how close are we to
some sort of agreement between the US
and Ukraine on a 28-point peace plan
that they can get behind?
>> Yeah, I think at least it's going to be
very difficult to see until we actually
see the text of this plan in the latest
uh iteration of it after those 24 hours
of kind of frenzied negotiations over in
Geneva led by Andre Yurmach from the
Ukrainian side and Marco Rubio with his
whole delegation from the United States.
There is apparently now a new text that
is circulating. We have not yet uh seen
it. But again, it's very hard to tell
what the um the kind of Ukrainian and
the European position is on this because
this is the sort of golden rule of
diplomacy under the Trump administration
is no one can be completely candid about
how they feel exactly about the text.
Everyone has to say yes, this is a great
framework. We're going to work on it a
little bit and we're going to go send
some input. So until we actually see the
text itself, it's going to be very
difficult to determine how close either
side is for the Ukrainians and the
Americans. And of course it still needs
to get another pass um by the Russians
and that is going to be another point of
this conversation that is by no means a
sort of secured and done deal. But that
is the sort of state of play now 24
hours. I just spoke to some foreign
ministers um from the European side here
who we should say notably have been iced
out of all of these discussions yet
again the diplomacy training the station
with the Europeans not aboard. The
question is how do they get their seat
at the table? And I think that the main
reason that the main way that they can
do that, the main lever they can pull is
to start to act on those Russian assets
that they still hold here in Belgium.
They've been bickering about it for the
last couple of years, 140 billion euros
that are still sitting here in the
Belgian accounts about what they're
going to do with that, whether they're
going to get a loan, because that will
make a complete difference in terms of
the calculus and the negotiating
position for the Ukrainians, not having
that money in the account versus having
that money in the account and basically
saying, "We can wage this war, the
Ukrainians, for the next two years. We
have the money. will make all the
difference. The Europeans at this point
have still failed to do that.
>> Ali, just quickly here, how realistic is
it that the Europeans are going to take
those assets that are from Russia,
co-opt them and give them to Ukraine?
>> Well, this has been the perennial
debate. So, they wouldn't really take
the assets that is really the red line,
but they have some financial engineering
where they would basically put up a loan
of 1540 billion euros and then use the
assets as sort of collateral. and they
have a sort of a way of financial
engineering to try to get those uh to
the um to the Ukrainians. But the other
point we should make here, Lisa, is part
of the 28-point plan, there were there
were ideas for the Americans side about
what to do with those Russian assets. So
the real question is, are those still
even on the table? I think for the
Europeans, what they need to decide is,
are we going to make an action on this?
Are we going to take this action or are
we going to stop talking like we are a
geopolitical superpower? Either the
rhetoric needs to change or the behavior
needs to change. Both can't go on like
this in Europe. Ali Crook in Brussels.
Thank you so much for being with us and
all your reporting. Joining us now,
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. Terry,
why the push before Thanksgiving, albeit
with a flexible date from the Trump
administration?
>> Um, I think frankly uh you know, you get
to the situation where the president is
uh tired of the lack of progress. the
president has been saying since the
beginning of the year that he's
interested in in uh in ending the the
Ukraine invasion and bringing peace into
that region and uh you now it's been
what three three and a half months since
the since the Alaska summit nothing's
happened uh as Ali pointed out at the
end of his talk uh you know the
Europeans continue to uh to to spout
rhetoric without results or an
additional push
As I've been saying since the Alaska
summit, the two most important parties
in this negotiation uh really aren't the
United States, aren't Ukraine, aren't
Russia. It's the Europeans and the
Chinese. It's what are the Europeans
willing to do uh to push and what are
the Chinese willing to let Russia do uh
in order to end the thing? And uh so I
think what the president's doing is
trying to hotfoot uh Europe yet again.
So where where are those lines that can
be drawn, Terry, between the Europeans,
between China? Where do you think things
like seeding territory and Donbass,
making Ukraine be okay with less troops,
having them not accept NATO membership,
can any of those lines be moved?
>> I I'm sure I, you know, and what you get
from the parties in the last 24, 48
hours, uh, is that none of that stuff is
set in stone at all. Uh so this is much
more a matter of you know the president
also has said uh over the past few
months uh that he looks at himself as a
mediator more than anything else. Uh and
okay uh he's a mediator and he's not
since he's going to be involved in a
security guarantee. But at the same
time, uh, you know, the what this is
about, I think, is about putting
together the strongest position that the
United States can agree to, that the
Europeans can agree to, and the
Ukrainians can agree to, and uh, and see
what they can get out of Russia. I mean,
the worst case scenario here is that uh,
all those parties are together. Russia,
which has never endorsed this uh,
proposed deal anyway, uh, says no to it.
uh the best case is it's it's uh grounds
for continued negotiations. Uh so I
think those are the two alternatives.
>> Well, Terry, you write about that
setting that Thanksgiving deadline as as
squishy as it is or not is is a whopper
of an optics misfire. Not being able to
meet that deadline. How does it in turn
impact Trump's push on domestic policy?
>> U well there two things. One is that I
think I think the president I did
criticize the uh the thanks US
Thanksgiving deadline as being bad
optics. U and I think the administration
partially understands that uh you know
because they're uh they're willing to
sacrifice it. Rubio has said that he's
not interested in a uh uh a hard
deadline there and that's a good thing.
um how how it affects the uh the
domestic uh that's going to depend on
how unified uh Trump and Republicans are
on domestic policy. So far they continue
to be and how unified they're going to
be on foreign policy. And the signals
that uh the Trump administration was
getting from the Senate over the weekend
were not positive signals on the on
whatever the original plan was. So what
you're going to see, I think, is a
position uh that is much more uh uh much
more indicative of Republican unity
across the board and probably a lot of
Democrats will support it as well.
>> We're getting a lot of truths this
morning from President Trump talking
about everything from tariffs to uh the
giants. And there's a real question here
going forward about what is behind some
of the recent pushes and some of the
impetus that he's had, whether it comes
to dropping tariffs on bananas and
coffee or whether it comes to some of
the push between Ukraine and Russia. How
much do you see a real pivot in the
Trump administration after the mid
midterm elections to some sort of
pro-consumerfriendly policies, whether
it's dropping tariffs or whether it's
those $2,000 checks, uh the tariff
rebates early next year?
I don't see a pivot. I see a uh I see a
change in emphasis to some extent. Uh
you know, they're not going to change
their policies certainly. And the uh
dropping tariffs on coffee, for example,
isn't a pivot on tariffs. U you know,
Besson's been very clear about that. And
you know, I think that's obvious what
what they're doing on tariffs at root
doesn't have much to do with food
stuffs, but um and that's not the uh
that's not the most important part of of
that policy. Uh but what I do think
they're doing is uh is being practical
and and emphasizing practical results.
Uh it's a mistake to think about uh to
Trump as a Democrat, a Republican, a uh
an ideologue of some kind. Uh at root, I
think the president is interested in in
solving problems. If he can solve
problems without federal involvement,
that's great. If he can solve problems
with a lot of federal involvement,
that's great. He's much more interested
in solving problems. And I'm not
cheerleading by saying so. I'm just
talking about his orientation since day
one in office. And uh and they'll
continue to do that. And uh that that's
been a more successful policy for them
than the adherence of either party uh to
ideology.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. Thank you
so much and have a wonderful
Thanksgiving. Coming up, HSBC regional
trade head Marissa Adams as US
negotiations heat up with two major
[music] partners. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> It was a bruising week last week with a
decline of 1.9% on the S&P 500 for the
full week even with a rally [music]
staged on Friday. The NASDAQ was down
almost 3% led by those mega techch names
with the one exceptional exception being
Alphabet Google with the support
potentially of Bergkshire Hathway this
morning trying to continue some sort of
rebound up to ten of a percent on S&P
futures. NASDAQ [music] also continuing
to recover 4/10en of a percent gain with
a real question here [music] about
whether certain key names have been
oversold. Russell 2000 flat. A real
[music] question here about how the US
consumer is going to weather through the
storm. Meanwhile, if you take a look at
the bond space, you can see yields
slightly lower across the board as
people look to a Fed that [music] at
least New York Fed President John
Williams seemed to indicate seemed ready
to cut rates as soon [music] as next
month. A real question here about what
this would do to the long end, 30-year
yields lower. We do have a 7-year
auction on Wednesday right before you
head out on Thanksgiving weekend, so do
not [music] miss that excitement. Uh
meanwhile, what you can see in the oil
patch is oil continuing to lose value in
the face of potentially [music] some
positive reconciliation between Ukraine
and Russia. Potentially those peace
[music] talks continuing between US and
Ukraine this morning. We are seeing low
uh crude traded on the NMX down 310 of a
percent following last week's decline of
some 3.4%
which brings us to under our radar this
morning. US and Ukraine preparing
[music] an updated version of a Russian
peace plan ahead of President Trump's
Thanksgiving deadline despite mounting
contention over the 28point proposal.
Both sides reporting they're advancing
toward a deal. I I don't know how
Ukraine does anything but use this at
least for a basis even if it's really
unsavory because their options are kind
of completely reject this get cut off of
US aid which even though a lot of US aid
has been pulled back it would really
hurt for them or just kind of push it
down the road and continue to fight. Can
Ukraine do they have that potential to
keep fighting? I think though that this
is kind of the worst fear for the
Europeans though. the idea that you
would get the White House and Russia
together deciding a plan without the
Europeans, without the Ukra Ukrainians
and shoving it down Ke's throat. I mean,
this is what happened. You had the head
of the sovereign wealth fund and Steve
Witkoff. They developed this 28-point
plan, at least that's what the reporting
suggests, to the point where some of the
sentences in it were like direct
translations from Russian where some of
the sentences and word structure was
really awkward. So, it's not ideal, but
it's kind of all the Ukrainians in
Europe h have to work with at the
moment. And it seems like at least the
US administration is split between Steve
Witoff on the Russian side and Marco
Rubio on the Europe and Ukrainian side
who will win out. Meanwhile, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson confirming that
the Trump administration is finalizing
plans to significantly reduce the costs
of health care across the United States.
Besson saying an announcement to address
the issue is planned for this week,
which is a reason why both of us got our
antenna up when we saw that political
report talking about a potential
extension to the ACA subsidies. It's
interesting that both these stories have
this bend of affordability and the
affordability crisis to it. On one hand,
yes, Trump wants to solve Ukraine
because he promised he would. But you
pointed out, Lisa, it's been lowering
oil prices. This is also a part of
affordability after those losses in the
gubanatorial races in New York City. Mom
Donnie was just in the White House. It
is a real focus from this Trump
administration to find different things
to try to build bring affordability
down. It's a careful needle to thread
though. How do you extend the ACA
subsidies without embracing ACA? And
that's what the conservatives in
Congress don't want to see.
>> So, some details from Politico on
exactly that point. Uh the health policy
framework that the White House soon is
expected to unveil, this according to
Politico, would include a 2-year
extension of Obamacare subsidies due to
expire at the end of next month.
However, there also will be new limits
on eligibility. So, possibly creating
that kind of stick to cater to some
conservative worries. Nonetheless, the
fact that you point out that Mayor elect
Mamani and President Trump met together.
The discussion was about how a lot of
them have the same priorities. The real
question now is how do you get there?
>> Exactly. Greg Ap of the Wall Street
Journal was writing about this over the
weekend and I thought he was right on
point. The idea is it's really easy to
campaign on affordability because
everybody feels it. It really hurts. How
do you fix it? It's not one solution
because it's food prices, it's housing,
it's wages that aren't keeping up as
much with inflation. There's not one
policy that fixed all those things. So,
sure, you can campaign on it and maybe
that's what the mayor elect will find,
but actually solving it, that's
incredibly difficult. Well, maybe the
Fed can do it because that seems to be
what everyone is hoping for, at least in
Marcus. White House adviser Kevin
Hasset, who is a top contender to become
the next Fed chair, saying President
Trump will interview finalists over the
next two months, targeting New Year's
for appointing the next head of the
central bank. I thought this was already
over. I thought we were already supposed
to have somebody in mind. Now we're
getting sort of a flipped to the
beginning of January. I just I don't
understand what's taking so long given
how long the speculation has been
ongoing about who will be the next
>> just in August. They said they already
narrowed it down to three candidates.
I'm looking at four candidates up there.
So apparently it's grown and shrunken
and grown. Maybe the good news is is
that like the big fear of the market
that we'd have a shadow Fed share who
would come in and say the opposite of
whatever Pal would say and create
confusion in the market that didn't
happen, right? Because they can't decide
who it will be. I guess the flip side is
is there's confusion without that
because this is such a divided Fed. You
don't need a shadow fed chair to have a
opposing voices right now. You can
though have someone who's just sort of
the poster child for it's your fault in
Jay Powell. Keep him there for as long
as possible, not have a new person to
really take the blame and then push that
as long as you possibly can. Meanwhile,
a lot of us have been talking about how
trade was such a huge issue just in
April and now where is it? Where has it
gone in terms of being the dominant
issue on earnings? The big questions
remain on the outlook for global trade
with negotiations still underway among
top trading partners. HSBC publishing
its global trade pulse survey finding
94% of US companies believe they will
increase international trade over the
next two years. That is above the global
average. Joining us now is Marissa
Adams, HSBC's Europe and America's
regional head of global trade solutions.
Marissa, can you riddle me this? We were
talking about how the US is becoming
increasingly isolationist and instead it
is the leader when it comes to plans for
international trade. Can you square the
circle?
>> Absolutely. And thanks Lisa for having
me on again. What's really interesting
and we've just surveyed over 6,500
companies globally, a thousand here in
the United States and US companies as
you said are more optimistic than their
global counterparts about growing
international trade. Three key reasons
that we see for that. One is that I
think for US corporates they've been
really close to the tariffs and
particularly the policy and so this is
something that's become almost second
nature to them in terms of how they look
at their businesses. Secondly, they are
being really innovative around how they
invest in AI in other cost efficiency
type uh efforts and I think because of
that fact of that closeness, it's really
meant that they've doubled down on it.
And thirdly, what we've seen is a real
sense of diversification for US
corporates both in their supply lines
but also demand markets. And I think
when we talk about tariffs, we often
talk about supply chains, but actually
it's been a great opportunity for US
corporates to look at other markets to
sell their products. We've seen a great
increase through our survey of companies
looking to Australia, Japan, the
European Union, perhaps markets they
hadn't focused on before. So that's
where we see that optimism coming from
those US corporates that we surveyed.
What about outside of the US? Marissa,
we saw reports this morning about how
Canada is getting closer to China to
even other areas that the US is a little
bit more adversarial with. How much do
you see the rest of the world moving
away from the United States in terms of
trade?
>> So I think it really depends industry by
industry. So if we look at the consumer
sector certainly there is a focus for
certain corridors you know a huge focus
on Europe to Asia Europe to the Middle
East but the US still remains the
largest demand market in the world what
I would say is in certain sectors like
the tech sector healthcare where the US
is a leader there isn't really a pivot
away from that uh and so what we're
seeing is how corporates are able to
absorb those costs uh look at different
diversification strategies but
ultimately you know the rest of the
world whilst they are looking at new
corridors will still remain incredibly
dependent on the US particularly because
of that large consumer market as well as
the advanced sectors where very much the
United States leads in.
>> Well, Marissa, to the point of cost, you
say in your survey 48% are revising
their pricing strategies. They're
absorbing the cost for now, Marissa, but
going forward, what do those pricing
strategies look like?
>> So, really interesting sector by sector.
If we look at the consumer sector, they
have tried as much as possible to hold
those costs back, but they are starting
to pass those on to consumers. We've
also seen that some of those consumer
retail companies are actually looking to
move up the value chain. Not all
consumers are equal. So looking at where
there's actually more opportunity
perhaps in the higherend consumer where
we've seen less pressure in the
industrial sector as well. We see
renegotiations with suppliers in a in an
effort to really amend those pricing
terms. So that's what we're seeing
across the board. I'd also want to come
back to the tech sector who have really
been and our report shows this have been
I suppose the most uh innovative and
also the most aggressive in terms of
their supply chain management. Some of
that obviously to do with tariffs but
I'd say also in terms of the AI race is
something that's driving them to really
diversify across the board.
>> Marissa, how much of the shift do you
think is permanent? And I asked because
AIPA in the case around tariffs is in
front of the Supreme Court now. if that
were to be struck down, is this a global
supply chain that would be looking to
get back into places like China or are
these shifts here now and forever?
So, I can't comment on what may or may
not happen from a Supreme Court
judgment, but I would say that some of
these are permanent shifts and I think
some of that has actually been a result
of the fact that there has been a little
bit less focus on uh expanding new
demand markets. As we mentioned, there's
been this push towards supply chain
resilience and we've seen over the past
four or five years uh reshoring or
regionalization. This has accelerated
it. So regardless of where the ultimate
tariff landscape lands, I do think this
is actually a fundamental shift and we
think about the geometry of where it
goes through to uh of the tariff
landscape and actually a positive one
I'd say for a lot of corporates. One
thing they are also looking at is
working capital and our survey was
really clear on this that even
corporates at the top end are feeling a
liquidity squeeze. One in five
corporates are saying that liquidity is
becoming a challenge. So we're looking
to see how we can support those
companies both from a bank bank
financial perspective, but they're also
looking to alternative credit to finance
those supply chains and that expansion
globally. Marissa, we saw an active
truth social feed this morning from
President Trump and one of the issues on
his agenda had to do with tariffs and
how a lot of companies have been
front-loading all of their inventories
in order to sideswipe some of these
tariffs. But that that certainly uh does
seem to be wearing thin as he said and
soon tariffs will be paid on everything
they apply to without avoidance and the
amounts payable to the USA will
skyrocket over and above the already
historic levels of dollars received. on
one hand from the US budget that could
be positive in terms of filling the
coffers for these companies. Does that
mean that there is likely a higher bill
to have going forward than is currently
being realized? In other words, the
effects really have not fully been a
felt.
>> So if you look at what the tariffs have
achieved so far and to that revenue
point uh they have achieved revenue. US
Customs and Border Protection is
estimated to collect approximately 200
billion in tariff revenue this year.
That's 77 million at the year end of
last year. So significantly larger. So
those tariffs are already coming through
and a tariff um you know is paid at the
point of imports. So even when goods
have been frontloaded, they have paid
for those uh those goods coming through.
Could we see more coming through in the
future? Potentially. But I'd say also
you look at the fact that not only have
you had that revenue from a tariff
perspective, you also had a bit of
reciprocity. So if you look back pre uh
pre-April 1st or April 2nd, a lot of
countries actually did have higher
tariffs uh for US products going into to
those nations, the European Union,
Japan. And as a result, as a couple
examples, as a result of the tariff
initiatives, a number of those tariffs
have actually come down. So it's cheaper
for those US goods to go abroad as well.
So you're seeing a real rebalancing
across the board. um that again hasn't
quite come through the numbers yet, but
we're certainly starting to see from a
sentiment perspective, but also um from
the trade corridor perspective as well.
Merc, when it comes to stockpiling and
inventories for this Black Friday
shopping season, how is the consumer
sector set up? Have they been building
up stock piles? Have they been more
reticent this time around?
>> It really depends on the goods. Uh so
obviously certain goods and I think one
of the best examples is a banana. it's
really hard to stockpile a banana uh
given the shelf life of it. So we have
seen in certain sectors I'd say
particularly in the consumer retail if
we look in fast fashion if we look in
some of the other core goods there was a
a drive to have inventory. This is not
also new to the tariff regime at the
moment. We saw that around potential
supply chain disruptions. And what
you'll see obviously in our report is
that any conglomerates and consumer
goods. They've actually seen that some
of the increasing costs in shipping have
been a reason that they've tried to
figure out how to bring more inventory
into the country sooner. What this does
do is put pressure on their working
capital and their cash. So the longer
you're holding inventory, the longer you
don't have that cash to release for new
investment, uh for new product
development. So, it's been a bit of a
fine balance industry by industry, but
certainly there has been a desire and I
think some of this even comes from the
disruptions of COVID that you don't want
to not have that inventory ready uh for
when those sales are coming through. So,
it's been a balance for companies on how
they balance that working capital need
with also the security of having that
inventory in the country ready for as
you say the Black Friday season as well
as Christmas coming through in a few
weeks.
>> Marissa Adams of HSBC, thank you so much
for being with us and have a wonderful
weekend if you are heading out early
right now. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your global brief with Bonnie Quinn.
Bonnie, [music] Lisa, thank you. Israel
is saying it killed Hezbollah's military
chief in a rare air strike on Beirut as
an almost year old ceasefire deal with
the Lebanese government waiverss.
[music]
The IDF says the attack killed
Hezbollah's chief of general staff, the
group's [music] second in command.
According to Lebanon's health ministry,
the strike killed five people and
injured 28 others.
BHP is ending a fresh attempt to acquire
Anglo-American. Anglo-American rejecting
BHP's new approach, saying a proposed
combination with tech resources is
[music] superior. BHP's decision comes
before Anglo and tech shareholders are
scheduled to vote on their planned
tie-up [music]
that would create a company worth more
than $60 billion.
Shares of Novo Nordisk sinking in the
pre-market after studies showed [music]
a pill version of OMIC failed to slow
the progression of Alzheimer's disease.
The trials coming as a longshot effort
to open up a new use for blockbuster
obesity drugs. Nova will discontinue a
planned one-year extension of the
studies. [music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
thank you so much, Bonnie. Up next,
reshaping global trade.
>> We've started to reshape uh the global
trade system in a way that we think is
better for America.
>> We must also act decisively to defend
Europe's [music] interest.
>> Trade talks are underway in Europe. US
Commerce Secretary Howard Lucknik
joining [music] us next. This is
Bloomberg surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> a lift to start the week potentially,
although uh just in terms of building on
the rally [music] that we saw from
Friday. Futures up pretty much across
the board led by the NASDAQ, the tech
giants in particular. One company I want
to point out, Google, Alphabet shares up
almost 3%. They have been the
outperformer based on Bergkshire
Hathway. But Danny, [music] this one's
coming with a little bit of additional
news over the weekend. Yeah, the
information reporting [music] that
Gemini's latest update was so good that
Sam Alman, the guru of AI, the one
everybody looks up to, sent out a memo
saying the vibes, they are rough. That's
like literally not me paraphrasing.
[music] He said it is rough vibes and
revenue could collapse to 5% [music] as
they race to catch up to Google. Not
what you want to hear from like the
beacon of AI hope.
>> Yeah, the rough vibes especially painful
given the fact [music] that they have
borrowed so much money and leveraged so
much of the AI ecosystem [music] to
their success given the fact that
potentially they could get uh beaten out
by Gemini the latest reiteration. So to
me this really goes to the question of
are we seeing the winners and the losers
really playing out in markets in real
time and does it lead to an overall bet
one way or another or you seeing this
dispersion increasingly in terms of
market performance. It's such a good
point because at one point we were
trading that all of the [music]
hyperscalers, all of the AI related
names that they would all do really well
and it's because the way this market
traded was an idea of super intelligence
was a genic AI and that was the thing
that was going to lift all boats.
Instead, the market has started to be
more discerning and saying, "Okay, that
thing out in the future, we care less
about that. What we care about now is
turning profitability for AI. It's that
near-term thing. It's that less like
squishy future that we've all been
promised. And what's happening here in
the [music] now?
>> Right now, what you are seeing in the
now, you are seeing stocks get that
lift, particularly led by the NASDAQ, by
big tech, by Alphabet in particular,
given some of the latest news. You are
seeing a little bit of a bid into bonds
yields lower across the [music] curve,
twos, tens, and 30s. You are seeing just
a couple basis points lower on the
10-year. Meanwhile, crude prices are
lower as people look to Europe and see
potentially uh some sort of agreement
between the Ukraine and Russia. A sense
that maybe oil prices could keep pushing
some of the lowest levels that we've
seen going back [music]
to October. A real question here about
how much this is reshaping the
landscape, Danny.
>> Yeah, I mean lower oil prices also
certainly helping for 10-year [music]
yields, too. And maybe it's part of the
reason that President Trump has been
pushing for this before Thanksgiving.
[music]
Cuz not only is it something he promised
in the campaign that he could end very
quickly, but it's also something that
has an implication for inflation.
[music]
It's a very multi-prong approach that it
feels like this administration is taking
to say we're going to try to lower the
price on coffee coming from [music]
Brazil. We're going to try to lower the
price on bananas. Why not throw oil in
there too if you can? And at least
that's [music] what we saw last week of
a steady drop in oil prices. And there
have been these ongoing trade
negotiations between Europe and the US,
between China and the US, between the US
and the rest of the world. And a real
question has been how much these new
cost of living or re-emphasized cost of
living concerns will hamper or
potentially feature in some of these
discussions in terms of where you get
deals, where you don't get deals. We've
seen that with respect to bananas and
coffee. We've seen that with respect
also to other commodities in South
America and the relationship between
Argentina and the United States. a
question here about how much the US is
going to seek strategic relationships
with key allies in order to solidify
some of the resources that the US
doesn't produce at home. It I it's this
confusing time because it's also a Trump
administration realizing that a lot of
this matters for the market and I go to
the discussions with China over Nvidia
chips too. There was also some reporting
that they would allow some H200 chips
into China. It's this question of what's
the trade-off between economic security
and at the same time providing a
populace with prices that aren't too
high. Again, we were just talking with
HSBC, the fact that a lot of companies
have made different pricing plans, that
they've been absorbing the prices. And
then you get President Trump this
morning. We've been talking about his
Truth Social post warning that the
stockpiling was going to end and that
companies would start to be paying the
tariff price. So on one hand you have
him trying to lower prices on things
like coffee on bananas. On the other
hand he's warning corporations you're
going to have to pay more. It's a push
and pull right now.
>> Which really goes to the point that the
Wall Street Journal highlighted over the
weekend. We saw this article uh where
they talked about analyzing 5,000 calls
of uh certain earnings reports and they
found fewer and fewer references to
tariffs talking about how the actual
price paid by a lot of these companies
was about 12% on average blended about
3/4 of it was passed through to the
consumers versus 100% during Trump 1.0
when there were fewer items that were
really put into place. This is really
important heading into holiday season
when people are wondering about the
elasticity, how much uh consumers are
going to be potentially absorbing the
cost and how much tolerance they'll have
of them. But we have been hearing pretty
positive news from a lot of retailers,
which I find absolutely fascinating. I I
thought one of a really good quote just
to remind everybody of in the Wall
Street Journal story was in February
where Jim Farley at Ford said that the
proposals at the time would have a huge
impact on our industry with billions of
dollars of industry profits wiped out.
And at the time you saw those auto
companies trading really negatively.
Instead, what did we get from the
earnings? Everyone's buying heavy
trucks. Everyone's buying really
expensive cars. Things did not play out
the way we expected them to. It was a
really humbling year and maybe a good
reminder as everyone's putting together
the 2026 forecast.
>> Well, and some people have noted and I
know that Eddie Ardenia is coming up and
one thing that he has talked about is
that the stock market's not the economy,
but kind of it is because increasingly
the stock market gains have really
fueled a lot of the consumption at the
upper end. And so if the stock market
does decline materially, you could see
the one ballast of the consumer economy
lose some steam and how problematic that
could potentially be. And so you wonder
at this point how much the Fed is
between a rock and a hard place. On one
hand, they want to support people who
are on the lower end who who could lose
their jobs. On the other hand, you're
dealing with the potential for a stock
market shock that would eliminate one of
the one bastions of this particular way.
That's part of the reason why last
week's selloff, I mean, I hate to use
the word ironic because obviously was
very painful for a lot of people, but
there was some irony behind it because
part of the reason you got the selloff
or at least that initial shove to get
the sell off happening was a hawkish
Fed. So you had fears that the cut's not
coming. The market sells off. The market
sold off badly enough that people
started assuming that a cut would come.
That the Fed put would come back and
would rescue the market. We heard from
Williams. That was the thing that saved
us all. So yes, it was AI. It was credit
concerns. But the real thing that's
allowed the market to sell off or to
recover has been expectations for a cut
and if they would save the market were
it to sell off.
>> Meanwhile, what you are seeing is this
expectation that the Fed will be able to
cut rates. We are getting retail sales
tomorrow from September. So, a little
bit steel, a little bit stale, but
nonetheless some data. We're also going
to be getting uh PPI a very big focus on
Wednesday with the jobless claims. They
are early as well as the beige book
after uh afterwards based on the fact
that that is the reference period that a
lot of people would be looking to for
the jobs report. So, a lot of people
thinking there will be a greater
emphasis uh on that going forward.
>> Does it help clear up any of the fog
that Chair Powell is driving through? I
don't know if it does. It's still not a
lot. You can only sort of go on what
we've heard from corporate America from
these little bits coming out. Again,
we're also going to get delayed retail
sales for September, but is that out of
touch as we're about to get a big Black
Friday spending [music] period? Coming
up, we're going to be speaking with
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik. That
conversation on trade coming at the top
of the hour. Also, Ed Yardi of Yardi
Research, Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of
America, Neil Duta of Renaissance Macro,
and Nor Christiani of JP Morgan Private
Bank. This is Bloomberg surveillance.
>> We just don't have a real clear picture
of what's happening in the economy.
>> Economic data has been middling.
>> The labor side is soft. Not yet
weakening in a more scary way.
>> Consumer sentiment is decidedly
negative.
>> There may be one more rate cut [music]
in the books for December. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. As we see stocks trying to
make it day two of some sort of rally,
optimism of a Fed rate cut, we are
seeing across the board a sense of calm
after a pretty volatile two weeks. We do
see a sense that even in bond markets,
there is a bid with uh with down yields
down just about two basis points, 4.0
05%. Meanwhile, crude prices [music]
lower yet again after declining almost
4% last week. Crude traded on the NMAX,
down now just [music] 3/10en of a
percent and this comes as trade talks
between the US and the European Union
are underway in Europe. The EU sharing
it doesn't expect a deal to [music]
lower tariffs on steel and other
products. Joining us now from Brussels
is US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik.
Secretary Lutnik, thank you so much for
being with us. I want to start on your
discussions with the European Union. We
were hearing some noise that it doesn't
necessarily include reducing steel and
aluminum tariffs from 50% to 15%. Is
that off the table for now?
>> No. What we're talking about, everything
is on the table when you have such a
great partner as the European Union.
They have 450 million people and a 20
trillion economy. So, the opportunity is
great. They would like to have steel and
aluminum as part of this package. And we
think it is very very important that
they understand our digital companies
and they reconsider their digital
regulations to be more inviting to our
big companies. They tend to tax our big
companies and attack our big companies
and they're not getting the investment
that we're getting. Right? You're seeing
trillions of dollars of our tech
companies investing in building data
centers in America and they're not
getting them here. So, we're talking to
them about take your foot off the
regulatory statement, build those data
centers in America and in exchange for
that, we'll come up with a cool steel
and aluminum deal that will all be
together. So, it's all trading. These
are trade deals. You're talking about
opportunities together. Let's bring it
all on the table. Let's see what we can
accomplish.
>> Secretary Lutnik, what's the threshold
in terms of reducing certain regulations
in Europe on US tech companies that's
required in order to create some sort of
framework for this deal?
>> Well, what what the European Union does
is they say, well, our our digital
rules, they they only touch companies
above a certain threshold. Of course,
the only companies above those threshold
are all American companies. So come on,
that that can't be the rule. Let's take
it off. Let's let's settle the
outstanding cases against Google and
against Microsoft and against Amazon.
Let's put them behind us. Let's come up
with a reasonable framework where these
companies can grow and build and then
those companies will agree to invest
hundreds of billions of dollars of data
centers here. So the idea is if they
take their foot off this regulatory
framework and make it more inviting for
our companies, they can get the benefit
of hundreds of billions, possibly a
trillion dollars of investment a year.
So the idea is I'm trying to convince
them that winning the way Donald Trump
is winning in America is the way to go.
Look at America. Look at these growth
rates. Come on. Do you realize our
investment in AI capex last quarter
exceeded consumer spending in America?
We had 3.8% GDP growth. We're going to
grow over 4% and next year we could grow
over 5%. You got to embrace what's
coming. The AI world is coming. Come on,
embrace it. That's what we're here
doing. Trying to bring and make our deal
with Europe, which was a great deal done
by Donald Trump. Let's make that deal
better.
>> Secretary Lutnik, ju just on that point
and point taken on what you see as the
benefit to embracing that tech, but the
EU over and over again has insisted that
its digital laws are not up for
discussion. Are you seeing any sort of
relenting from them as you've been
pushing it? Does it seem like they would
agree to you on this point?
>> Well, you know, I see a lot of
ministers. Remember, there's 27
countries, so some are more open-minded
than others, but you know, it's a
process, which is talking to them and
telling them that if they want to get
that kind of investment here, they've
got to change the model. So, there's the
carrot and the stick. You know, if you
keep taxing these companies, they're not
going to give you the investment. So
that's my job to sort of talk about it,
help those American companies find their
way clear to invest here and to grow
here. And another example for them, I
show them that, you know, they're ruling
out clean diesel for batteries. And I
try to remind them, you don't make
batteries in Europe. Come on, guys.
Don't make rules that harm yourself. You
don't make batteries. That's not a good
idea. Stick with clean diesel. Stick
with combustion engines. Come on, be
clever about yourselves. And just common
sense. This is the common sense Trump
administration here in Europe trying to
remind them that they have an amazing
economy that can grow and build will
help them grow and build with great
trade with America, but you can't be
silly and sort of embrace just
batteries, which you don't make in
Europe. So these are the kind of
conversations I have. They're pretty fun
if you ask me because I get to point to
the growth in America and say, "Come on,
follow our lead and we will have a
bigger, better, stronger trade deal.
We'll we'll add to it. We'll add
excitement to it, but you've got to come
along with us."
>> Secretary in terms
we've been seeing because the AI has
been contributing a lot to this American
economy. As a lot has been said about
the twospeed nature of it, that on one
hand AI is doing well and on the other
hand, you have consumers that are still
feeling high prices. You saw that play
out through the most recent elections.
There's been a renewed concentration
from this Trump administration to try to
reduce tariffs, especially on things
like food g food uh food goods. Are you
and the rest of this administration as
you negotiate tariffs, specifically
looking at that, trying to find tariffs
to bring down to lower the cost of
everyday household items for American
consumers?
>> Exactly. The Trump administration is
exactly about affordability. We are
going through every line item to try to
make sure we can drive affordability
across the American consumer landscape.
Two things though, American earnings are
growing, right? The average earnings of
America, their income is growing. So as
that grows and we drive prices down,
you're going to feel that golden age
coming. So it's the combination of
earnings growing and we are razor
focused on bringing down prices. That's
one of the things we're doing here
today, working together to try to bring
down prices on average daily products.
We are working on it. The Trump
administration is on it. We have a clear
direction from the president. We are
going to lower prices, make things more
affordable.
>> Just to build on what Danny's also going
to raise income, raising income as well.
>> Just to build on what Danny's talking
about though, there is a feeling that
there is a limit to how much tariffs can
go up or how much the Trump
administration may have to reduce
tariffs going forward in order to
address some concerns about cost of
living. Has that affected your
negotiations at all?
No, I think I think it's pretty easy.
The the world understands that there's
give and take in these trade deals and
the benefits are clear that the Trump
administration has created the greatest
set of trade deals. You know, the
president has talked about a $2,000
tariff dividend coming back to the
American people. He got the one big
beautiful bill which is going to cut and
and there's going to be significant
income growth from people next year as
that bill comes into play. And we are
going to focus on the affordability. You
saw coffee and cocoa and bananas and all
those kind of things. Those prices came
down. You're going to see prices
continuously come down. Energy prices
down. You're going to see affordability
across the board here. Trump
administration is going to win in
affordability and income. Two sides of
the coin. We're going to win. Secretary
Lutnik, there's been a huge focus and
you've been talking about how uh US tech
has definitely been the bastion of the
economic growth over the past couple of
years. Has the Trump administration
decided whether or not to allow Nvidia
to sell the H200 chips into China?
That's been a discussion and something
that increasingly people are speculating
about.
>> Well, I've seen that speculation. That
kind of decision sits right on the desk
of Donald Trump, right? He's got Jensen
from Nvidia who really wants to sell
those chips and he's got a good reasons
for it. There's an enormous number of
other people who think that that's
something that should be deeply
considered. And the benefit that we have
is we have Donald Trump in the Oval
Office. He is going to weigh those
decisions. He understands President Xi
the best. He will decide whether we go
forward with that or not. That's on his
desk with lots of different adviserss.
The president loves to hear lots of
different voices to make those kind of
decisions and he'll decide whether we
sell those chips or not and then we will
go execute it however he decides to go
forward.
>> There's a bigger question here,
Secretary Lutnik, about what national
security is. Is it more of a national
security risk to give China some of
these high-powered chips or is it more
of a national security risk to not have
US tech in China? Has your view on that
changed?
Well, that's the question exactly as
well put and in front of the president,
which is, do you want to sell China some
chips and keep them using our tech and
our tech stack, or do you say to them,
look, we're not going to sell you our
best chips. We're just going to hold off
on that and we're going to compete in
the AI race ourselves. So, that is the
question. It's in front of the
president. He's going to decide. It's a
really, really interesting question.
He's got all the information. He's got
lots and lots of experts talking to him
and he's going to decide which way he
wants to go forward.
>> Secretary Lutnik, meanwhile, use of AIPA
for tariffs is in front of the Supreme
Court. The feedback has been skepticism
so far from many of the justices,
conservative ones included. As this
plays out, can you walk us through how
you'd prioritize the different
alternatives should the administration's
use of tariffs via get struck down?
So I was in the Supreme Court. I sat
through the whole argument. The justices
were tough on the beginning on the
Department of Justice's uh you know our
person, but then they were much tougher
on the other side. Uh much much tougher.
So I left that day feeling very
confident that we and the president was
going to prevail on these AIPA tariffs.
So I think you're hearing it from me. I
think I was there in the courtroom. I
heard it all the way through. I didn't
sort of write my story halfway through.
I sat all the way through to the end.
The president's going to win that case
because that makes sense for him to win.
But I want to remind you, the president
has lots of other authorities. He has
232s. He has 301s. He has 338s. He has a
whole variety. One 112, 122. He's got
all sorts of other powers. and tariffs
are going to be part of this
administration going forward, but I
don't think they're going to be
necessary because the president's going
to win the AIPA case in front of the
Supreme Court.
>> Secretary Lutnik, theoretically, if the
US did lose that court in front of the
Supreme Court in terms of AIPA as
justification, how quickly could you
roll out that package of additional
measures, whether it's section 301 or
section 232?
I think many of them could come very
very quickly. I I really I don't think
most of the big deals I don't think are
in jeopardy. I think the people who did
those deals, they don't want their
tariffs to go up. They want the auto
tariffs. That's durable. That was in a
90 at the Supreme Court. You have auto
tariffs. You have semiconductors. You
have pharmaceuticals. You have steel and
aluminum. You have lumber. All of those
are durable tariffs. They're not going
anywhere. I think our big trade deals
are here to stay the way they are now.
Right. And and the others I think we're
going to win the case, but I think it
would be relatively straightforward for
the president to replace it with other
means, but it's not going to be
necessary because the president has used
AIPA correctly and he's going to win
that case. Secretary Lutnik, uh we know
you've got a really busy morning, but
before we let you go, has the uh Supreme
Court case influenced any of your
discussions at all with trade partners
in terms of what the potential limits
are to your ability to negotiate or
potentially keep some of the ongoing
negotiations that have been already
struck.
>> So that's exactly the point. I'm I'm
here in Europe. It hasn't come up at
all. The fact is we made a great deal
with Europe. They think it's important
to them. It's important to us, right? It
includes semiconductors. It includes
pharmaceuticals. It includes autos.
These are things that are important to
the European Union and they're
important. The whole trade deal is
important to America. I think this deal
stands. I think the question that we are
negotiating is how to make the deal
bigger, how to make it stronger, how to
make it more inclusive, how to bring in
these digital, you know, markets act and
try to improve that for digital America,
how to maybe do steel and aluminum and
how to include that, how to do things
bigger and better [clears throat]
together between our two great
economies. I think they're going to do
it standards. Make sure they take US
autos here and make sure we are working
together to extend both the European
Union standards and American standards
throughout the world. I don't feel that
the AIPA case is here at all. I think
the opportunity is for us to grow and do
business together. People want to have
their trade deals with America and I
think these deals are durable. US
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutneck, thank
you so much for your time and good luck
over there in Europe. Coming up just
shortly, Edard Denny of Yard Denny
Research on the roaring 20s and how far
we are into [music] it. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. We are seeing a bit of a
lift to [music] equity futures. You are
seeing a bit of a bid into bonds. It is
the glorious refusal from uh what we saw
maybe last week where everything sold
off. [music] S&P futures lowered by 310
of a percent. Bonds actually did catch a
bid last week. I should correct myself
there. And they are continuing to
decline. Yields lower down by 4 uh by by
two basis points to 4.05%.
Stocks pushing higher to start the
shortened holiday week. Eddie Yardi of
Yardi Research sees a continuation of
this year's remarkable earning strength
into 2026. He writes, "There are some
legitimate concerns regarding AI related
companies accounting practices that call
into question the quality of S&P 500
earnings more generally." Ed joins us
now for more. Ed, wonderful to see you.
Thank you so much for being here. So,
you have been the one dubbing this
period the roaring 20s and now you seem
to be at least uh a little bit less
positive than some other people. Am I
getting that right?
>> Well, yeah. I think uh for now the
market has had one heck of a move here
and it has been the roaring 2020 so far.
Uh I think we're seeing some profit
taking. I think we're seeing some
questioning of the uh the AI situation.
People have called it an AI bubble. Uh
which is great. The more that people
worry about that being a bubble, the
more that they slowly take some air out
of it, the better. Uh the the worst case
scenario would be kind of like 1999 when
just about nobody saw the saw it as a
bubble and everybody was very excited
about it. So having some caution
actually is a positive development.
>> Can you see the overall S&P 500 continue
to mount this kind of double-digit gains
that people are expecting without the
participation of big tech as the main
driver? Well, I I think the answer is uh
it's it's possible. And I you know, we
we've been waiting for the S&P 493. You
know, you got the Magnificent 7 and then
I call them the impressive 493. Uh
nobody's been impressed by them because
the Magnificent 7 have kind of hogged
all the the the oxygen in the room. Uh,
but I think it's time for the 493 to
really show off because they're the ones
that are going to benefit uh from the
productivity gains that are available,
not just from AI, but from automation,
robotics, humanoids, and autonomous
driving. All all these technologies,
they're going to be impacting the
productivity of of those kind of
companies. And so, I think that's where
the earnings are going to really shine.
You know, people have been saying that
there's been no earnings outside of the
Magnificent 7. when you look at the S&P
500, that's not true at all. The the
rest of the the companies have actually
done quite well just by comparison, they
have. And so, yeah, I think, you know,
the Magnificent 7 are right now selling
at a 27 times forward PE forward PE. Uh
the rest of the market selling for about
19 to 20 forward PE. I think you could
have a situation where the Magnificent 7
become a little less valuable and the
rest of the market becomes more
valuable. Isn't it a problem though that
part of the thesis of why the rest of
the market becomes valuable is because
of the contribution of AI and the pro
and productivity behind it? Absolutely.
>> Doesn't it make everything just
incredibly correlated where you think
you've hit out on a name that has
nothing to do with AI, but all of a
sudden Caterpillar's like, "Oh, a bunch
of our earnings are coming from AI and
now they sell off with the rest of the
market."
>> Look, at the end of the day, I think
it's going to be up to quarterly
earnings reports. Uh the quarterly
earnings reports we've had this year
have been phenomenal. I mean, we we went
into these earnings reports first,
second, third quarter with uh kind of
mids singledigit expectations for the
growth rate on a year-over-year basis.
Instead, it was double that. I mean, we
had, you know, 10 to 15%. The third
quarter is coming in at 14% on a
year-over-year basis. And I think we're
going to continue to see that uh earning
surprises because of the impact of uh
technology and and boosting
productivity. And yeah, I'm very
concerned about the the slowdown in in
in payroll employment, but on the other
hand, GDP continues to be very strong.
So, the implication is and I think we're
going to see it in the numbers now that
the government's open and they do some
uh some collecting of data. I think
we're going to see some very powerful
productivity numbers.
>> Can we get back to another set of math
that that Lisa started this on this idea
of depreciation, depreciating assets
within these companies and the costs
with it? the issue that Michael Bur and
you've raised this too. This idea that
the life cycle of tech is becoming
shorter. Yeah. So these assets are
depreciating faster, costs rack up
quicker and it's not something that the
companies have accounted for in their
own figures.
>> Correct.
>> How do you sort of solve that equation?
>> Well, they the companies themselves
really don't know. I mean this is one of
the big known unknowns. Uh and that is
how long are these chips going to be
valuable? How long are they going to
work? uh you know some of this the
Nvidia chips are pretty hot and uh they
kind of self-destruct after a while. Uh
but look uh I think the important thing
to recall is that uh a couple years ago
when you looked at the number of data
centers in the United States there were
4,000 of them. In other words, this is
not like a new you know surge in data
centers. And the reason that we're
building all these data centers is
because we need the capacity. uh you
know I'm using AI all day as a research
assistant and uh everybody I talk to is
looking to see how they can use AI but
there's lots of other technologies that
are being used now to increase
productivity because we have to because
there's a a shortage of labor for all
sorts of different reasons.
>> So that's one side of it of how useful
is this stuff? Can you get the return on
it? The other side are do funding
markets remain open for these companies
to continue to tap to do the incredible
amount of spending that they're doing.
You have seen some nerves there be it in
CDS spreads of Oracle be in the ability
of private credit players to keep
funding it if you have wobbles in their
publicly traded stocks.
>> Is that a concern for you that credit
markets don't absorb some of the
spending as well as they have been?
>> It's a concern but at the same time I'm
glad to see that the markets are
disciplining uh that the whole process.
I mean, again, the fact that people are
so nervous about an AI bubble, the fact
that some of these uh risk spreads for
the bonds being issued uh by those who
are trying to raise money for AI, the
fact that the market is on to the notion
that, you know, let's not overdo it,
that's a good thing. That's a discip
that's a discipline on the fact that
we're we we might be prone to excess,
but maybe the markets will diminish
that. Does that mean that the meltup
risk which you put at a 30% probability
earlier is a lot lower now?
>> Yeah, I'm actually a week ago I lowered
it to 15% because I I think the fact
that the hype is is sort of let's put it
this way that the air is coming out of
the bubble rather than the bubble
bursting is a is in my mind a very
positive development. Do you think that
the sell-off that we've seen actually
gives the Fed more room to cut rates
because there is already that skepticism
embedded in that AI trade that goes
beyond just, you know, cheap money.
Let's go into it.
>> Yeah. Well, I I've uh for the past year
I've been uh opposed to the Fed cutting
rates, but they just won't listen to me.
uh last year when they cut rates by 100
basis points from September to uh
December, I said, you know, you got to
be careful what you're doing here
because the bond market may not agree
with you. And sure enough, bond yields
went up 100 basis points. So that did
they really lower interest rates when in
fact the bond yield which probably
matters a lot more than the Fed funds
rate. And the same thing seems to be
happening now though you know we are
down to 4%. Uh but the Fed has already
cut twice and uh I think a third might
uh rattle the bond vigilantes again.
>> You think they exist? They still exist.
>> They're still out there.
>> They seem pretty dead right now.
>> Well, they're not the only players. Uh
they're certainly uh central banks is a
treasury. There's this new invention
stable coin is creating a lot of demand
for treasury bills and certainly that's
an important development. Uh but all I'm
saying is look, you know, at the end of
the day, when we're looking at the
10-year in terms of its relevance to the
economy, a lot of it has to do with the
mortgage rate. And the mortgage rate
really hasn't come down much in the face
of what the Fed has done, namely cutting
rates by 150 basis points. As a matter
of fact, Fed Chair Pal said, "Hey, look,
we've already done 150 basis points.
[music] Let's let's give it a shot here,
a chance before we cut again." But then
again, you're getting a a mixed message
from the Fed officials. Yeah, [music]
and from potentially political
influence, although some people would
argue uh how about how much that's on
the table. Edard Denny, [music] would
love to see you again sometime soon.
Eddie Denny of your Denny Research.
Wonderful to catch up with you. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. [music]
We're seeing a bit of a lift to start
this week after last week ended on a
more positive note after a pretty brutal
thrashing particularly of big tech. What
you are seeing today is that lift build
as the session grows older. Futures up
510 of a percent 6652. You are seeing a
bit of dollar weakness as people gauge
what's going on. The euro 11543 [music]
a bid into bonds yields lower by about
two basis points 4.05%
and crude lower. What we are focusing on
is also Alphabet given the fact that we
heard that report over the weekend about
Open AI and potentially a catchup coming
from Alphabet with Google's Gemini
[music]
really posing Danny some significant
competition. Yeah, the information
reporting that Gemini has been so
positively received [music] that Sam
Alman wrote a memo to his staff warning
of, in his words, rough vibes and saying
that it could lead to a potential
revenue growth collapse to 5%. It's an
issue because even if AI is this beacon
of hope, if not all companies are going
to be benefiting from it, what does it
mean with OpenAI's commitments [music]
to spend over a trillion dollars, if all
of a sudden they're thinking, I don't
know, maybe we don't spend as much
because this is getting more difficult
and we're not going to have as many
users as we think that enough could
unravel some of the AI trade even if the
promise is there with Gemini for
example,
>> the weak hands. How much are all of the
AI entire ego system really [music]
leveraged to a couple of hands that
could potentially be a lot weaker
considering that they have less revenue
let alone profitability to really
fortify some of those bets. It's the
reason why [music] this morning we see
Amazon potentially having more data
center capacity than people previously
believe. There is this feeling [music]
of data capacity hoarding in order to
prevent your competitors from getting uh
control over it. And how much is that
fueling some of the arrangements [music]
that we've been seeing? I
>> I love that aspect to it. It it also
sort of echoes when Meta was hiring
every single AI expert that they could.
Not necessarily because they needed all
of them, but almost to say, "Well, we
[music] own all the AI geniuses. Sorry,
Apple. You're not getting any of these."
It's that sort of arms race, but at what
point does it go too far? And that's a
question the market has started to
address. I'm going to dress up like an
AI genius for Thanksgiving. Meanwhile,
on our radar this morning, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson saying the US is
not at risk of a recession in 2026.
Besson acknowledging that some parts of
the economy are under stress, including
the housing market, and claiming that
President Trump's tariffs are not
impacting inflation. Elsewhere, New York
City Mayor elect Zoron Mdani saying he's
open to alternatives to increasing taxes
on the wealthy to fund his proposals.
>> I believe that these are two tax
proposals that make sense. Increasing
the personal income taxes on New Yorkers
making a million dollars or more by just
2%. increasing the top corporate tax
rate to that match that of New Jersey.
More important than how we fund
something is that we fund something and
if there are additional or alternate
revenue streams to do so, I will accept
them and I will celebrate them.
>> Mani's comments coming after his meeting
with President Trump at the White House
on Friday and Danny that was not the
meeting a lot of people expected. They
expecting fireworks, pugilistic kind of
displays of machis machismo, but instead
it was a love fest with one person
saying, "Ah, you could call me a
fascist." And the other person's like,
"Yeah, I'm a communist." And
essentially, you know, we love each
other because we're both New York fans.
And it was literally like a get for get
out of jail free card. Like, no, no, no,
don't answer the question on fascism.
And then he does an interview after
that. Mom Donnie, the mayor elect
saying, "Yeah, well, Trump Trump said
that I called him a fascist." Like, I my
opinions haven't changed. It's okay.
Something we've seen play play out. If
you go in person to the president, the
opinions tend to be different as if you
haven't been. But it also underscores
the fact that they're both trying to
address affordability. They want the
American populace to see them tackling
it. Of course, they both come from very
different sides. Not all of it is coming
from different sides. Taxes certainly is
one of them, but they have the same
goal. So, on that front, they had a big
agreement. Yeah. And they both have a
very strong presences on social media,
and that's only added to that.
Meanwhile, the White House preparing a
contingency plan if the Supreme Court
strikes down President Trump's sweeping
tariff powers. president posting on
social media earlier this morning that
the full benefit of his tariff policies
would take effect soon. And we spoke
with uh with Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik earlier this morning about uh
some of the ongoing proposals. A real
question about how much more is going to
go into effect and what could
potentially happen should these be
overturned. He really talked about the
EU's digital taxes and digital scrutiny,
saying that this is the thing that they
need to come around to. He seemed
positive saying essentially look at the
wealth of America and how much AI has
done for us and why don't you want that
Europe. They don't want that because
this is where they really can have
sovereignty. Are there rules around
digital companies? I don't think Europe
is just going to give that up. Maybe it
sees some of the lines being moved if it
means they can get relief on tariffs,
things like steel that they really want.
But again, this is a question of
sovereignty for them. It is not
something they're just going to seed to
the Trump administration. I mean, it's
not a new debate and it's not a new
negotiation. Let's turn to the Federal
Reserve. Wall Street watching for a slew
of data this week, hoping for a signal
on future rate policy ahead of the Fed's
next meeting. Neil Da of Redmac writing,
"Odds December should be sub 50." That
daily is saying December is an open
question means it's probably kaput. No
December means no January. Neil joins us
now. He is grumpy. He wants the rate
cuts. He doesn't see them. Why do you
put this off so much given the fact that
New York Fed President John Williams
seemed to really open the door to a rate
cut next week and next month and we do
have that closeness between him and Fed
chair J Powell.
>> Well, you're doing me not a solid there.
I mean, I wrote that before Williams
came out.
>> Let's do this again.
>> Neil Dada is positive for a December
rate because of John Williams. I mean, I
don't I look I I think the sort of um I
think the bigger problem is that we're
even debating whether it is or isn't
really, right? I mean, if they don't go
in December, maybe they wait for the
data. We know that the employment and
the inflation numbers come out actually
after the Fed meeting. So perhaps they
come up with some con consensus where
they pause, they want to see the data,
then they go in January. I mean, that's
possible, too. But to me, the bigger
issue is what's really there to debate
and why are we having this debate? I
mean, unemployment has been climbing.
It's actually been rising for three
consecutive months. It wasn't We were
very close to going to 4 and a.5%.
Everything that's come out since
September. Um, in October, we saw that
war notices, the worker adjustment
retraining notices rose. We saw layoff
announcements rise. Um, so what makes
anyone think that unemployment is going
to stabilize here? U, you know, my sense
is that it's much easier to tell a story
for why unemployment is going up than
why inflation is going to reacelerate.
And so the fact that we're having this
big debate about whether or not we can
go 25
um in December or January to me is a bit
is a bit ridiculous. I mean it almost
feels like I don't want to be fatalistic
but it does feel like the train has
already kind of left the station. I mean
even if they are able to cobble together
a consensus Lisa um the likelihood is is
that that's probably going to be it.
They're not going to signal a path of
easing going forward. So the train has
left the station implies that you see a
greater chance of recession. Is that
correct?
>> I do.
>> So for next year, you see actually a
greater chance of recession next year,
which is completely counter what we're
hearing from every company and every
Wall Street strategist, which is often
how it happens. But that's what you see.
>> Yeah, I do. I I do. I mean, I think if
you go like sort of industry by
industry, like what area do you think is
going to look better going forward? I
mean, um, with respect to employment,
right? I mean, so, you know, I've talked
about uh residential construction. Home
builders are sitting on more unsold
inventory. So, which way do we think
residential construction jobs will go?
The freight sector is in recession. It's
in recession going into the holidays as
as capacity comes out of the freight
industry, which way do we think trucking
and rail and uh trans uh employment is
going to go. What about restaurants? I
mean, if you pull up a chart of
restaurants, I mean, their margins are
being squeezed. They're telling us that
they're holding the line on price. if
their margins are being squeezed. Which
way do we think employment is going to
go for them? Look at lumber prices, oil
prices. You know, if you're a sawmill,
can you actually make a profit with
lumber prices where they are? Probably
not. So, if you're in the woods product
employment, which way do we think that's
going? How about people working on oil
rigs? Also, probably down. So, um you
know, there's a lot of this sort of
myopic fixation on initial jobless
claims. And you know, initial claims
have to go up. We haven't seen initial
claims. Well, initial claims aren't
really a leading indicator, right?
They're just an indicator that comes out
every week. Um, what we know about how
businesses behave is they shut hiring
off first. They've done that and then
they lay people off as a last resort.
And so, if you have to ask me like which
is the direction of layoffs over the
next 6 to 12 months, my argument would
be is probably higher.
>> This is an economy though that defied a
lot of the worst expectations for a
downturn after COVID. And a lot of it
was attributed to the government giving
out more stimulus. if we don't get cuts
from the Fed. But what we do get is
Washington DC handing out $2,000 tariff
rebate checks. You get tax rebates too
from the one big beautiful bill. Could
that be enough to save a recession from
this economy?
>> Well, I mean, I've never in my career
been able to figure out a way to make
tax refunds useful in terms of
predicting what happens with consumption
because it doesn't actually change
permanent income. That's what ultimately
drives consumer spending. So to me, it's
probable that people save the refunds
that they get because they're worried
about job loss, right? So to me, it's
that income constraint that matters
that's more binding than whatever people
get with the refunds. You know, I don't
really have an opinion on on $2,000
rebates. Uh Treasury Secretary Bessant
has said that they probably need
Congress for that. So um you know, the
president can say what he wants. Um but
ultimately um you know to me this is
really about uh monetary policy being
too tight and that's kind of setting in
motion uh a slowing in the economy.
>> So then there's a question about the
five speakers voting speakers we've
heard from that don't want cuts. What do
they see that you don't Lisa pointed to
one of the possibilities corporate
America is really strong. Another
possibility, and this was raised a few
weeks ago by Evercore, was that it is
FOMC members digging their heels in
ahead of what they see as a Trump
appointed chair who will want cuts and
them setting the groundwork now for
fighting back against that. Do you think
there is some politics to play behind
what these officials are saying?
>> I mean, it's possible, but I also take
them at their word. I mean their their
basic argument seems to be that
inflation has been high for a while and
that as a result that you know
expectations can become unanchored. Um I
really see very little evidence for
that. I mean if you look at business
inflation expectations just from the
Atlanta Fed released last uh week. I
mean it's basically where it was last
year even before all the tariffs started
going. So if if the price setters in the
economy don't see higher inflation
expectations it's really challenging to
see where it comes from. Neil, I'm old
enough to remember when I was feeling
bearish and you are yelling at me like
things are going so well. What are you
talking about? And now I'm saying, you
know, companies are doing really well
and you're saying it's not going to
work. The train has left the station
without rate cuts. When was the last
time you were so negative on the state
of the economy?
>> I mean, I'm a pretty young guy, so not
[laughter]
it's it's been a while. I mean, you
know, probably when I started my career,
uh I worked for uh someone who was very
bearish. So maybe that was the last time
like back in 06 maybe. But um yeah, I
mean look um you can't say I'm um a
perma anything, right? So yeah, I mean I
think that there's reason there's more
reasons to be cautious than bullish
right now. Um that's sort of the way I'm
looking at it.
>> Going forward, who do you expect the
next Fed chair to be? Evidently, we were
supposed to get a pick now. Then it was
going to be next month. Now evidently
January. Is there an indication to you
based on the timeline that keeps getting
moved depending on the moment? I think
the longer the process goes on, the more
likely it is is that Secretary Besson
becomes the Fed chair. That's my view. I
mean, I I just think that [snorts] uh
what do we know? I mean, we know that
President Trump wants Secretary. Could
you imagine being one of these other
people like Kevin Hasset? Like, it's so
obvious that you're number two because
every time, every chance he gets to talk
about the Fed chair, he's like, "Well, I
wish this guy over here would do it."
And he's pointing to Scott
>> Bess and number one doesn't want it,
>> right? He keeps saying no. I don't know.
I mean, to me, it's almost like a bet on
do you think that Trump, President
Trump, gets to make his personnel
decisions or not. And if you do, then
you have to assume that Secretary Besson
is the one that takes the seat. The
longer the process goes on, I think the
more likely it is he he's the one in
that seat.
>> Neil Da, always wonderful to catch up
with you. Neil Dada, a Renaissance macro
here and he is not always bearish, just
to be very clear. Usually that's my
moniker and this time around not feeling
very positive. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's your Bloomberg brief
with Bonnie Quinn. Bonnie,
>> Lisa, thank you. Billionaire hedge fund
manager Bill Aman is getting ready to
seek an IPO for Persing Square next
year. The Financial Times reporting AMAN
is speaking with advisers and has
informed some investors that a listing
may come as soon as the first quarter.
Alibaba shares surging in pre-market
trading this after the company said its
pen AI tool hit 10 million [music]
downloads in the first week after
becoming publicly available. Alibaba
plans to add Aentic AI shopping and
other capabilities to the app and launch
it overseas.
Wicked for Good is scoring the second
best opening weekend sales of the year.
The second film [music] in a two-part
series based on the Broadway musical
brought in $150 million in ticket sales
[music] in its first weekend in US
theaters. The spike in ticket sales was
welcome relief for theaters, ending a
recent box office drought that included
the worst Halloween weekend for cinemas
in 31 years.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, Lisa.
[music] Thank you so much, Vonnie. Up
next, the AI revolution.
>> There is some AI fatigue. You cannot get
away from the comparisons [music]
to the late 1990s.
>> The narratives will get even scarier,
but that's an even greater opportunity
to be [music] able to put capital to
work. Nor Cristiana Christristiani of JP
Morgan Private Bank joins us next. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Coming into a coming into a week where
we have a lot going on even though it is
a holiday shortened week. Tomorrow we've
got retail sales as well as PPI. On
Wednesday we get the beige book which
will actually carry greater import due
to the der of other data as well as
initial jobless claims [music] which
comes at a key survey week. So a lot of
people digging into that. Right now you
are seeing that rally continue to build
510 of a percent gain on S&P futures.
You are seeing a bid into bonds [music]
continue to develop as the session grows
old. Our 10-year yields now down three
basis points to 4.04%.
Crude uh rebounding. Uh we'll take a
look at what's going on with those
negotiations between [music] Ukraine and
Russia and whether there was something
to spur that. Under surveillance this
morning, the AI revolution.
>> There is some AI fatigue.
>> You cannot get away from the comparisons
to the late 1990s.
>> The narratives will get even scarier,
but that's an even greater opportunity
to be able to put capital to work. We
don't think AI is a bubble. The
technology is not a bubble.
>> The market is, you know, is still going
to keep wanting some kind of uh proof.
>> Here's the latest. The sustainability of
the AI spending [music] boom whipssawing
tech stocks as bubble fears reemerge.
Newer Cristiani of JP Morgan private
bank writing this. Simply bringing
modernization uh modernizing energy
infrastructure to meet current demand
needs would entail trillions of dollars
of investments which means we are a very
long way from energy an energy capex
bubble. Nor joins us now. Nor thank you
so much for being with us.
>> Thank you for having me. It's
fascinating to take a look not just at
the big tech names in the United States,
but the ramifications of the entire
ecosystem to build out around AI and
what opportunities there may be around
that. How does Latin America fit into
this in a way that you're seeing with
both clients as well as just in terms of
the international landscape?
>> I think that you point out a really
important thing. So one of the things
that we have been discussing the most
with clients is that we are still
positive on the AI trend theme that it
underlines one of our key pillars in the
2026 outlook that we published only last
week but it goes beyond just the
traditional Max 7 and that is something
that we may want to make sure that our
clients act see uh the ramifications of
AI go way beyond just the hyperscalers
or certain set of companies both in the
private and the public space. They also
permeate into sectors such as
infrastructure or industry such as
energy and in that specific role is that
where Latin America comes comes in.
Latin America has an amazing wealth of
natural resources and we have clearly
seen it being more and more in the news
given precisely the opportunity not only
for these companies but for countries in
general developed countries to also
leverage some of the opportunities on
trading those natural resources with the
countries in the region.
>> And this is clearly something that I'm
hearing more from a lot of investors.
We're hearing from portfolio managers
who are looking to other places. I
wonder how much this is complicated by
the deal that the US made with
Argentina. A question of who's the next
Argentina? Who is the next region and
company country that needs not is going
to create some sort of alliance with
either the US or with China and get some
uh incoming capital. I don't really know
if we can say that it's going to be the
next Argentina or not. I think it's the
region as a whole. The opportunities
that underly the potential for the
region are massive. 40% of the world's
global copper reserves lie in Latin
America. Chile only Chile itself
represents 27% of those resources. Uh
Chile or Argentina together number one
and number three in terms of lithium
resources. Venezuela has the largest oil
reserves in the world. And still Brazil
for example is the country with the
largest um the largest producer in Latin
America. agricultural commodities,
everything silver in Mexico as well and
Peru. So any any uh important resource
for this transformation, especially on
the industrial energy energy side lies
in Latin America. So it's be it goes
beyond just the who's the next
Argentina. there can be a renaissance
for the entire region especially as we
move into greater openness towards
private investments towards developing
not only uh drawing in external or
foreign direct investment into a region
but also developing the internal uh
investment sources. It does feel like
there's two sides to this because one,
it's an incredible opportunity, right,
for all these precious metals and other
industrial metals which already had uses
now being fueled into a new AI economy.
But what does it mean then to find true
diversification for portfolios if
increasingly different parts of the
economy are being fueled by AI?
At the end of the day, the way that we
think about, let me take you a step
back. The way that we think about
internet right now is everything. you
you cannot do anything without internet.
Certainly my children would definitely
not survive without their iPads if we
were went anywhere, right? So I think we
are thinking right now about AI sort of
in a box. So this is the AI theme but in
reality it will eventually permeate into
every single sector in the economy. So
it goes beyond as I said in the
beginning it goes beyond just thinking
about AI in these sort of four little
walls and understanding that it is a
technology that is going to disrupt
every single process of our day-to-day
livelihoods from the way that we got
coffee from the way that we interact
with each other from the way that we do
online shopping. So I think that when we
understand that diversification comes
naturally into our portfolios right now.
What we're what we're talking about and
it's part of our our outlook again is
how can you leverage these team through
the private side through the public side
but also expanding into other areas s
such as barbling uh to some extent the
risk of exploring new ventures on the
private side in your portfolio with
something which you have a little bit
more visibility such as infrastructure
uh and real assets. Have have any of the
recent high-profile blowups in private
credit markets, as idiosyncratic as they
might be, has that stopped clients or at
least sort of hamstrung some of the
interest that clients have had in
private assets? Great question. I I
don't think that it has hamstrung
interests. I think that it's definitely
raising doubts. I think that it's
definitely raising some some question
marks over there uh in the back of their
minds. One of the questions that we get
the most often is precisely the the the
the risks around private credit and all
the scandals that we've gotten that
we've heard of so far. We don't think
that that's the case. On the contrary,
we believe that there's value and the
opportunity for AI to continue to
finance expansion through not only
private markets but public markets as
well is massive. Our colleagues in the
investment bank for example have called
for $5 trillion of spare leveraged
capacity in markets to finance this
expansion which is exactly the number
that we foresee in the next few years
for infrastructure developments. So
there's definitely some signs of
exuberance but we're not at a point in
which that would be our biggest concern
uh now.
>> How much does the opportunity in Latin
America really hinge on the elections
that are coming up? also this idea of
creating a little bit more fiscal
discipline in order to create a an
investment framework that seems a little
bit more reliable.
Latin America has had natural resources
forever. Mexico has had the border since
it was Mexico pretty much. So the the
argument about these being powerful for
Latin America could have been the same
argument that we were talking about 20
30 50 years ago. the juncture in which
we're right now. I think that you put
the nail on the you you hit the nail on
the the head nail on the head. Nail on
the head. I always get everything wrong.
No, there [laughter] you go. So why?
Because we're coming into a key election
year for the region. And beyond just
elections, elections have always been a
thing for Latin America and for emerging
markets in general. What we are seeing
right now is the possibility of the
pendulum swinging from the extreme left
to maybe something a little bit more
center right or at least open to private
investments and that could be something
that is extremely powerful uh extremely
powerful for the region in in
catapulting the potential that we see.
We've already seen it happen in uh
Bolivia for example that was a surprise.
We've already seen it happen in Ecuador.
We have we saw it happen as well uh in
Argentina. So those are examples that
tell us that there is some openness to
these potential that could together in
the mix finally finally bring that uh
you know possibility to fruition.
>> Christristiania, thank you so much for
being with us today. Nor Cristiania of
JP Morgan Private Bank. Right now we're
looking at a market that is feeling a
lift as people reprise their hopes and
dreams of AI. Coming up next hour, we'll
speak about that $7,800 price target
that so many uh different investors have
[music] for next year's S&P targets.
Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley is one of
them. Lorraine Hutchinson also joining
us of Bank of America, James Egalof of
BNP Paraba, and Osan Quan of Wells
Fargo. [music] This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
We don't think AI is a bubble, but we
want to now expand our investment
universe of how to capitalize on this
new technology.
>> You should stay risk on, but also
thinking about which other parts of the
market to be dipping into.
>> We are not hitting a wall. These things
happen in a hyperrowth capex cycle.
>> How do we get to your umbrella? You just
get volatility to calm down a little
bit. The narratives will get [music]
even scarier, but that's an even greater
opportunity to be able to put capital to
work.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Futures building on
Friday's gains with hopes of a Fed rate
cut gaining steam. Traders focusing on
the US consumer to [music] power
equities higher in 2026 with a key tell
in this week's kickoff to holiday
shopping plus retail sales out tomorrow
from September. The year ahead outlooks
are pouring in and there's a clear
[music] message. Danny, it is to buy the
dip. It's hard to look at last week and
the week before and say that this is
anything other than the machines taking
over that it was systematic strategies
just looking at how much the momentum
trade [music] was being killed. And I
think that's given people a lot of
confidence to say this is a sell-off you
want to buy, but market narratives
[music] are incredibly important. So
it's not only who was doing the selling,
but it's has the narrative changed.
[music] Are the gurus and Sam Alman and
Mark Zuckerberg, are we going to look at
them differently and not take their
grand uh prognostications [music] of
where AI goes at face value anymore? Are
we becoming more discerning? So sure,
maybe we can go higher, but maybe not at
the speed that we were. There's a sense
that there needs [music] to be some
reconciliation between the AI boom and
the rest of the world. The [music] idea
that consumers have been feeling the
pinch and that the economic data has
been coming in raising questions about
the state and the resilience of the US
consumer. [music]
If you do see a participation with the
consumer actually feeling better, how
much does that fuel this [music] idea?
It's not just AI but the adopters that
are really going to drive this rally
higher. I think that's what you would
need to [music] get someone like Anil
Dua to get on board with the idea that
this economy is okay cuz it's
fascinating to be able to have this
[music] conversation. I mean, we heard
it from Secretary Lutnik of how AI is
powering this economy and on the same
time have an economist come on and say
if the Fed doesn't cut, we're going to
be in a recession. It is quite
remarkable to come away with those two
very different views from the very same
economy.
>> Yeah. And uh just to give you a sense of
where we're focused on in that
particular comment segment, trains
already [music] left the station. And
this week we are looking for retail
sales and PPI tomorrow. We've got the
beige book coming out on Wednesday as
well as jobless claims. Look out for
that. Right now you are seeing that lift
continue in markets after last week.
Really ended with a more positive note.
Yet still down about 3% for the NASDAQ
this morning. Up 610 of a percent on S&P
futures building on gains at session
highs. You are seeing a bid into bonds
although retracing some of the earlier
uh fervor 4.05%. [music]
And crude has rebounded after uh being
lower earlier in the session. Coming up
this hour, Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley
with stocks edging higher. Lorine
Hutchinson of Bank of America on the
state of the consumer heading into the
holiday shopping season. And James
Eglehoff of BNP Paraba as traders await
the release of key economic data, albeit
highly stale. We begin this hour with
stocks eyeing a rebound as we head into
that shortened Thanksgiving trading
weekend. Uh the team at Morgan Stanley
releasing their outlook for 2026.
writing, "We raise our S&P 500 price
target to 7,800 driven by strong
earnings growth. We believe that we're
in the midst of a new bull market, an
earnings uh cycle, especially for many
of the lagging areas." Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley joins now. Wonderful to
see you, Mike.
>> Thanks, Lisa.
>> So, let's start on the optimism. You
have been optimistic for quite a while
talking about the rotation into the
adopters, not just the AI tech
behemoths. Why are you getting even more
optimistic as the year goes on? Well, I
would say it's just a changing. It's an
evolving uh narrative we've had, which
is that we think that, you know, that
the policy is still misunderstood,
right? That they essentially came in
this year, did the growth negative stuff
first, and now we're looking at the
growth positive stuff. I'm not worried
about the economy. What I am a little
bit worried about is that the Fed is
kind of dragging its feet. So, I would
agree with Neil's comment like the Fed
needs to cut, but not to save the
economy, but to see the full rotation
into these lagging parts of the market,
the interest rate sensitive parts of the
market, which is really our story for
2028 or 2026. We think the 7,800 is
dependent on the earning cycle
broadening out.
>> So, there's a lot to unpack there. I
want to start with you agreeing with
Neil because Neil had a pretty negative
assessment of the overall economy,
saying he suspects the trains already
left the station with respect to the
pain from the Fed keeping rates where
they are for as long as they have. and
that we could be looking at a recession.
You seem to disagree on that. So,
where's the nuance here? What's the
difference between preventing recession
and really allowing the the the rotation
into some of these other names?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think our view has been
differentiated that we think we had have
had a recession. We went through a
rolling recession in the private
economy. So, I would I would agree with
Neils that the economy is weak, but but
it's it's it's rebalancing now towards
the private economy. I mean, many parts
of the economy have been suffering.
housing, all the interest rates, durable
goods, you know, uh, consumer goods,
which have been under pressure, uh,
commodity sectors, transportation,
there's been no volume going through the
economy, no velocity in the real
economy. And the way that the the
administration's changing the the the
policy in addition to the Fed now
cutting hopefully next year, you'll see
a the private economy now doing much
better, the government no longer
crowding out these areas that have been
under pressure. But we do need to get
that trend that the Fed needs to do
more. The Fed needs to cut rates and
they need to probably provide some
balance sheet.
>> I say one of the things that Neil talked
about was his fear that even if they cut
in December, they're not going to lay
out a path for continuous cuts. And Fed
Governor Wall Waller seemingly enforcing
that speaking on Fox moments ago saying
you might see more of a meeting
bymeating approach once you get to
January. If you do get that posturing
from the Fed that maybe they cut in
December, but it's a meeting by meeting
approach, they're not necessarily going
to cut in every single one. Is that
enough to allow for that rotation or do
you need a clear pass of cuts to get it?
>> No, we need the ladder and I think we're
going to get there one of two ways.
Either the data, you know, the labor
data is going to basically support our
view or my view that we had a rate of
change trough in the labor markets in
April. Okay. And so that data then will
allow the Fed to cut more or or signal
they're going to cut more. The second
one is that we get more financial
stress. Okay? That's what's been going
on. We think the market we we wrote
about this back in September, early
October. We thought the market was going
to have a 10 to 15% correction because
the liquidity wasn't there that that
that the balance sheet was tightening
and we think there's evidence that that
that correction is well advanced. Okay,
all the momentum stocks, you know,
crypto obviously is the topic of the day
down 30% for Bitcoin. I mean, these
things are telling you that the market
is worried about this liquidity. So, so
as usual, the markets will dictate, you
know, the Fed's timing. So, if the
market really wants and look, markets
are like children, right? They they'll
have a little temper tantrum and then
and then the Fed will respond to that.
So is this like a mini 2018 in that
regard, right? You have that you kind of
go into end of the year and then there's
stress in some of these financial
metrics that the Fed cares about and
then they provide a more balance sheet.
So we think there's a sort of this this
tugof-war going back and forth, but
ultimately it resolves in a more
doubbish policy path.
>> On the point of crypto, a lot was made.
I mean, even from Bill Aman basically
saying things that he thought weren't
correlated all of a sudden were that
Fanny and Freddy were selling off
because the people who were buying
crypto were the same people in those
names. Did last week and the week
before's episode, given how much crypto
falls, shows some vulnerability within
the market structure, within who owns
these stocks and how fragile and weak
some of those hands are?
>> I don't think it's showing anything new.
I think this has been their whole time,
right? I mean, I don't people waking up
to the idea that liquidity is important
for the market. I mean, obviously, I I
don't know what they're doing. I mean,
like that's kind of crazy. Of course,
liquidity matters. I mean, liquidity is
and especially the last 10 years or so.
I think that the hard part about
liquidity is it's sort of this sort of
nebulous thing. you it's hard to measure
and I've spent a lot like the last two
or three years trying to develop a
better skill set around that and I think
we've got a better handle but I would I
would I would say it still is one of
these things that sort of the invisible
hand and so what you have to do is you
have to look at the market to tell you
when liquidity is tight or not
>> so you kept mentioning the balance sheet
are you saying QE is going to start
again
>> well they may not call it QE but yeah
the balance sheet needs to expand not
only to support financial markets but to
support the better growth that I think
is coming next year Right? So if capex
really picks up for the first time in 10
years, okay, let's let's be honest, we
haven't seen much capital spending. But
the big beautiful bill is incenting that
that's a usage of capital that needs to
be supplied by somebody. So the balance
sheet needs to grow just to help the
help the economy and the markets. And so
we can call it QE, call it not QE, but
generally they need to expand that.
>> How much is a 7,800 target predicated on
the idea of the Fed cutting rates and
using its balance sheet to help support
liquidity?
>> It's very important. I mean, I would say
if we don't get at least one of those
items surprising the markets, meaning
more than three cuts or we get more
balance sheet expansion, call it QE,
call it something else, okay, yield
curve control, whatever you want to call
it. Okay, if we don't get some
combination of that, then we're not
going to reach our target. So, I'm
assuming that we get there either
through the labor data or through some
financial stress.
>> So, it has been so far that the AI trade
has maintained any kind of equity
valuation despite the fact that people
are getting increasingly worried about
an economy that you think already has
gone through recession. I just wonder do
you think that ship sailed in terms of
AI leadership propping things up? Do you
think that if we don't get the real
economy reacelerating? You cannot get
the multiples that we currently have
been seeing on the big tech names.
>> Yeah, I think it's one and the same. I
mean I mean obviously the investment in
AI is on the premise that it will lead
to higher productivity, adoption and all
that works. I mean that's the way
technology investment works. So you
you're not yeah these stocks are not
going to work. The leaders aren't going
to work if the foundation itself isn't
being supported by the technology
investment. We assume that is going to
happen in 2026. That is part of our
thesis. Okay. But it's not without risk.
So our job is to lay out our our
narrative which we have conviction in.
But then to highlight these risks in the
short term or in the medium term that
could throw that that could throw that
narrative off.
>> Eddie Ardeni also joined us earlier just
saying that some of the air is being
taken out of the AI bubble and to him
that me meant that the meltup that we've
been seeing is going to be harder to
come by. Has something changed at least
with that blind willingness to continue
to buy AI related stocks regardless of
how much they're spending and what the
return on that spend is?
>> Well, I mean this is a natural evolution
of any capital spending cycle. There's
always going to be a challenge on the
return you're going to get. And this is,
you know, we've seen this multiple
times. We saw it a year ago. We've
talked about this, you know, multiple
times in July of 2024. That was the peak
in sort of the AI capex deceleration.
So, this is an eb and flow. What I what
I like to look at is the AI spenders.
How are those stocks reacting? is the
market enforcing discipline on the AI
spenders which then trickles down into
the the capex beneficiaries. But we
think this is going to happen. The
money's been raised now. So we like the
debt marketers are now involved and so
that money is not going to sit on these
balance sheets. It's going to be spent.
The question is what's the payoff look
like and what's the timing of that
payoff? We think some we'll see some of
that in 2026 2027 and and so now it's
just this transition. You're you're kind
of trading back and forth. So I want to
make it clear. We think there's a
broadening out. That doesn't mean that
all the AI stuff gets killed and
everything else does really really well.
It it can work in harmony. In fact, it
needs to work in harmony to some degree.
>> If you do get a scenario though where
let's say I don't know Meta, that seems
to be one of the poster children for not
getting that return, doesn't get it as
much and they need to pull back on their
spending, but everybody else is still
spending. Do you only need one pillar to
fall to really hurt this trade or can
just any sort of spending happening
within this trade, regardless of who the
winner is, continue to lift all the all
the boats? Well, look, I mean, look
what's been going on, right? So, we've
seen a massive bifurcation or dispersion
in the performance of not only the
hyperscalers, but names within that. To
me, that's healthy. That's like not
everybody's going to win like not
there's no trophies here. I mean, you
have to actually win the game, but all
of these companies are competing for the
trophy. So, in that competition, I think
we continue to see this velocity of
spend. And then we're going to see the
most exciting part about this AI spin to
me is we don't even know yet, okay,
these new businesses that are going to
be created, these new industries that
are going to be created, the
efficiencies we're going to get in areas
like healthcare or education or
manufacturing. That's on the come.
That's really where real wealth creation
is going to be coming from.
>> So next year or maybe the end of this
year when we find out who the next Fed
chair is going to be, how much will that
matter to you in terms of whether your
bull case will get realized? I mean, who
will necessarily be good for that and
who might be a little more problematic
for that?
>> You're probably not going to like my
answer, but it doesn't matter to me
because ultimately the market's going to
tell the Fed what to do. I mean, that's
my general that's always been my view.
People hate it, but like I'm a markets
person, okay? The markets dominate. The
markets tell investors what to do,
right? So, the markets will, you know,
kind of force their hand if it if the
markets believe they need more
liquidity, they will force it hand. If
the market believes it needs more rate
cuts, it will force ahead in because we
become so financialized at this point,
right? The Fed now is basically
obligated to make sure that we have
financial stability to some degree. And
they're also they have an obligation to
help Treasury fund the government. So I
I don't believe the Fed is independent.
I believe they're they're they're trying
to work, you know, in the best interest
of Americans. Okay? I'm not saying
they're dictated by the White House, but
they are not independent of the markets.
They are not independent of the funding
requirements of the US government. Okay?
So they, the Treasury and the Fed will
work together to do the best they can to
solve those issues.
>> Mike Wilson, wonderful to speak with
you. Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley, have
a wonderful Thanksgiving. Thank you for
being here. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg brief. Boston Fed
President Susan [music] Collins saying
she hasn't made up her mind on how
she'll vote at central bank's next
policy meeting. Collins saying she would
like to see more data [music] before
making a call. Some on the Fed are
preparing for an unusual level of
disagreement at the meeting. Fed
Governor Chris Waller saying [music] you
might uh see the least group think
you've seen in a long time. The next Fed
rate decision is on December 10th.
Meanwhile, the former president of
Brazil, Hayier Bolsinaro, has been
arrested after a judge deemed a flight
[music] risk. Police detained Bolsiniro
after he took a soldiering iron to a
courtmandated ankle [music] monitor as
far fears that he planned to flee. And
in sports, the New England Patriots won
their ninth straight game, beating the
Cincinnati Bengals to [music] move into
the AFC's top seed. Elsewhere, the
Baltimore Ravens moved into first place
in the AFC North [music]
after beating the Jets and the
Pittsburgh's Steelers loss into Chicago.
In the NFC, the Eagles lost to Dallas
and the Rams won their sixth [music]
straight game over the Skitting
Buccaneers. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. Up next, the morning calls. Plus,
Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America
with a consumer check ahead of the
holiday. [music] That next, you're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> The average earnings of America, their
income is growing. So as that grows and
we drive prices down, you're going to
feel that [music] golden age coming.
You're going to see affordability across
the board here. Trump administration is
going to win in affordability and
income, two sides of the coin. That was
US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik
earlier this morning from Europe as he
negotiated some sort of trade agreement
that called for loosening some of the
tariffs on steel and aluminum for Europe
[music]
uh in response to or in return for maybe
lightening up some of the regulations
around US tech. Right now [music] in
markets you do see that rebound
continuing to gain steam. 7/10 of a
percent gain on S&P futures session
highs. Uh you are seeing that bid into
treasuries Wayne as you do see that risk
on field take hold almost flat on the
10-year 4.05%.
Time now for the morning calls. First up
Wolf Research upgrading Morgan Stanley
[music] to outperform citing
accelerating revenues and attractive
valuation. Next up JP Morgan initiating
Hyatt with an overweight rating saying
the company has the potential to close a
valuation gap [music] with Marriott and
Hilton. And finally, VNP Paraba Exane
rating Meta new outperform, noting its
ability to aggressively invest in
artificial intelligence. Let's turn to
retail. [music] The strength of Black
Friday shopping this week set to provide
a key reading on consumer health. BFA
senior retail analyst [music] Lorraine
Hutchinson joins us now. Lorraine, thank
you so much for being with us. What are
you expecting? What are you hearing in
the initial phases as everybody heads to
the stores, which should I say heads to
their keyboards?
>> Sure. Yeah, good morning. Um, it's go
time today, right? We're kicking off the
holiday season with we call it Black
Friday week. Um, if you check your inbox
this morning, there's a ton of deals.
So, everybody is looking for value right
now. And I think the key for this
holiday season for the retailers is many
of them has have raised prices. So,
you'll still get great deals on Black
Friday, Cyber Monday, but those deals
will be based on a higher price. And the
culprit, of course, is tariffs.
>> How are inventory levels heading into
this? Is there excess inventory that
they're trying to work through with
these Black Friday sales?
>> Not really. No. I mean, they once uh
Liberation Day hit, they all took a more
cautious stance on units. The reason is
because they know they have to charge
higher prices to offset the tariffs. So,
inventory is actually quite healthy.
Black Friday is all about trying to
attract customers with holiday deals.
So, I feel really comfortable with the
way inventory is shaping up into
holiday. I think the real question will
be what does the consumer do with these
higher prices? Will they accept them?
Will they look for cheaper options? Um
how much will they spend this Christmas?
>> Well, it's a good point because sure
deals but to your point from a higher
level. What is your read on the consumer
whether they are still going to play up
or pay up for those or if this is just a
period of a lot of bargain shopping and
only a few will win?
>> You know, Black Friday is always a
period of a lot of bargain shopping. So,
you will get the real bargain hunters in
there. One thing that I can say pretty
clearly about Christmas is Santa always
comes. Uh, you know, we always see a a
lot of maybe even extra or above planned
spending during holiday. So, I worry a
little bit less about um the Christmas
gift shopping and I worry a bit more
about self-purchase. Right? If you do
want to get that must-have item for your
kids, you may not buy a new holiday
outfit for yourself. Um, so I think
there are going to be trade-offs with
these higher prices. And I think, you
know, consumers are looking for the best
value. And that doesn't always mean the
lowest price. It means, you know, where
can they get something that's really
high quality or a really hot brand for
the best deal. How difficult is it to
really get a gauge when you look at
overall retail sales? And we're going to
get the retail sales number for
September. And I understand it's stale
data, etc., etc. How hard is it though
to get a clean read given the fact that
there is an inflationary component of
this that retail sales look good on a
headline number but might actually be
really negative when it comes to just uh
the inflation aspect. In other words,
most of it is higher simply because
prices are that much higher.
>> It's you know we think that that is the
case. If you look at our BAC proprietary
debit and credit card data, it would
tell you that a lot of the growth in
consumer spending is coming from higher
prices. So we don't really see a lot of
unit growth. And you know that's why I
think the the lean inventory levels are
important in my sector specifically
because they have been pretty cautious
about the number of things they'll sell
knowing that they do need to charge
higher prices.
>> How much are you seeing a lot of
retailers cater increasingly to upper
income consumers just because that's
where the money is and that's where the
consistent stream has been and we see
that from Gap with the idea of leaning
into a higher price point in certain
parts of their business which has helped
support their uh their business. You see
even at Walmart increasingly focus on uh
higher and middle inome consumers and
not just the low end. Is this the new
strategy?
>> Absolutely. And and there's no way where
you see it more. I'm going to surprise
you when I say this, but offp price uh
TJ Maxx, Ross Stores, their comps are
surging. If you look at the numbers they
put up last week, who would expect TJX
to put up a a six at their core concept
or Ross to put up a seven? they are
starting to cater to a slightly higher
income customer by getting better brands
but at great discounts. So if you can
get that treasure hunt really going, a
slightly higherend consumer will come in
and elevate your prices sold across the
store. And that's what's happening with
off-pric. It's actually really exciting
place to be right now because with those
higher prices come better margins for
the off-pricers.
>> I I thought a lot of these brands though
don't want to be in these types of
locations because you get more
saturation. It's bad for the things they
sell at wholesale. So, how are these
off-pric re retailers able to do this
and able to bring in a strategy that
appeals to higher income people and
getting brands that are willing to do
that with them? A lot of times it's
fixing mistakes. Nobody's perfect. You
know, there are certain styles or
certain sizes that they can't sell. And
Off-Price does it very efficiently. One
of the reasons why there's not a big
online business for off-pric is because
you can't search it, right? It's um a
little bit of a secret from some of the
higherend brands. And then some of the
higherend brands just need the volumes
and the throughput associated with
off-pric. They're opening stores.
They're growing traffic. They're some of
the few retail concepts with strong
brick-andmortar sales growth. Something
about it feels a little bit depressing
because it's already a K-shaped economy
and then you have these retailers who
were exposed to lower income
increasingly trying to become less
exposed to them. What about retailers
catering towards lower inome people? Do
they still even exist anymore? And how
are they behaving right now?
>> Well, well, they do. And and I guess
don't get me wrong, Off-Price is not
abandoning their lower income consumer.
I think one thing that's very clear is
they are trying to service the customer
really well at the good, better, and
best price points. So, what they're also
doing is trying to elevate the value
that you get at a good price point. So,
it's actually a great shopping
environment for the consumer. But I
think also what you've seen the numbers
out of Walmart last week were were also
excellent and um things like fashion
stood out, right? So I think everybody's
trying to get a little bit better and
provide a better product for, you know,
same price or more of a value price
point. Does anyone actually go to the
store or is everyone just in front of
their computer on their phones? I mean,
honestly, does anyone actually do the
lining up and running in and pushing
people down? Please don't do that. But,
you know, is that sort of still a thing
or not? Really? Not as much. I mean,
Black Friday, well, once you over co
actually, they all started matching the
Black Friday deals online to avoid the
crowds and then it sort of lost its
luster. Um, so people do go and but they
don't have to be there at 5:00 a.m. when
the doors open. And I think that's
creates kind of a nicer environment uh
for everybody.
>> I would think so. But maybe that's like
people's recreational activity after
eating so much.
>> Do you remember like poor people trying
to get in their stampedes? I hope that's
not the record.
>> The beginning of my career.
>> I like this. It's like instead of a
turkey trot, you storm Walmart.
[laughter]
>> Loren Hutchinson of Bank of America.
Thank you so much for being with us. You
know, I mean, I guess it is exercise if
you're pushing people out of the way,
running in. Coming up, James Agelhoff of
BMP Paraba as traders await the release
of key economic data this week. Plus,
we'll check in on some of your morning
movers. Oscar [music] health soaring on
reports of a potential plan to extend
Obamacare subsidies. That news broken
earlier this morning from Politico.
[music] This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
We are 1 hour away from the cash open
and what we are seeing in markets is
that lift continuing to grind uh into
the open. Just about an hour to go and
now we're up 7/10en of a percent on the
S&P. [music] NASDAQ higher by even more
as people pile back into some of the
trades they abandoned over the past few
weeks. [music] We are also seeing that
haven bid into treasuries fade as the
session grows older nearly flat now
4.06%
even though we did get commentary from
New York Fed President John Williams
talking about how he could see the
near-term maybe cutting [music] rates
meaning maybe next month at least that's
how it was interpreted by markets. We
are seeing uh some other things move.
Your morning movers include of course
Alphabet shares which we were talking
about earlier. I am very focused at
Alphabet given the fact that we heard
from the information the fact that uh
maybe OpenAI was losing some clout
[music]
to Alphabet based on their Gemini uh
model given the fact that their AI tools
are turning out to be nearly as good as
Open AI. those shares higher by 4.
>> Nearly as good of if not better cuz Sam
Alman saying that the vibes were rough
because of how good Gemini was and it
meant that their revenue wouldn't be as
strong as they [music] expected. It
fights against this model that the stock
market has been pricing in where
everybody is a winner. Maybe it's more
it's a winner takes all. And what
happens in that case is OpenAI still
going to spend $1.4 trillion going
forward? Is Sam Alman still the guru and
you're going to buy and trade based on
whether he says that super intelligence
is coming? [music] It's a market that's
more discerning because it's an
environment that is more discerning that
not everybody is doing as well as the
others.
>> Yeah. And does cash flow matter? Right.
I mean the idea that OpenAI is not
making money and the idea that uh
Alphabet has a steady very profitable
machine underway. [music] How much does
that give them the upper hand to really
develop what they want to get the data
centers they want to and not have to
rely on the debt market to be nice to
them and frankly on everybody under the
sun to give them money, give them
handouts, give them shares, give them
chips and whatever else so that they can
grow into their [music] dreams. It's so
true because the question is
increasingly turning to will debt
markets fund this going forward cuz so
much of this company spending [music]
has been pushed to the debt markets.
What happens if you get a Fed that
doesn't cut as much and allow easy
conditions? you have private capital
players who are starting to get under
scrutiny from their shareholders and
maybe don't raise as much or maybe don't
take as much risk and when you start to
see spreads widen out. We haven't seen
that play out yet. If it is playing out,
it's ever so slightly. But does it
change the whole [music] calculus if
they can't turn to the debt markets as
much as they had?
>> Yeah. Meanwhile, we did get some uh
earnings or particularly a release from
Novo Nordisk earlier this morning
talking about Alzheimer's and a trial
that they had tied to their uh their
ompic release that it didn't actually
solve Alzheimer's. And you're seeing
Novonorisk shares lower by almost 11%.
The early trials not showing success.
Eli Liy down almost a percent. Eli Liy
also has an Alzheimer's drug. Although
this really is centered around what the
other uses are of some of these weight
loss drugs. They cure addiction, they
cure uh you know overweight, they cure
uh heart disease. The question around
Alzheimer's, yet another benefit, but
perhaps some of these studies throwing
some uh some shade on that.
>> And I also think this is where Novo was
hoping that it had the lead because it
has been falling behind to Lily. You can
see that reflected in the share price.
You can see that reflected in the
effectiveness of their medicine. So for
Novo, this could have been something
that would have given them the edge.
It's been taken away from them and
that's why you're seeing Novo react so
much more than the share price of Eli
Lilly.
>> Meanwhile, Oscar Health shares climbing
in pre-market after uh Politico reported
that potentially the Trump
administration is considering extending
the Obamacare subsidies, the premium
subsidies for 2 years. The caveat being
they reduce some of the exact some of
the applied uh pool of people who are
eligible for these benefits. We're
seeing these shares up almost 23%. We'll
keep you posted on that story as it does
develop. Turning to the economy,
investors preparing for a key week of
data. Bloomberg's Enda Curran joins us
now. Enda, the stale September data that
we're getting tomorrow. How excited are
you?
>> Well, that's all we have to go on. So,
pretty excited for now, Lisa. Um, but as
you mentioned, the September retail
sales data will come out tomorrow.
Expected to show a moderation in
consumer spending in that month, maybe
around a 0.4% gain from a month earlier
compared to a 0.6% gain in that month of
August. You know, we're getting mixed
head mixed messages on in uh retail
spending at the moment. Uh big retail
chains are saying customers are spending
well. They're broadly speaking saying uh
money continues to tick into their
tills. But obviously, we're also getting
pockets of warnings from some retailers.
We had that consumer sentiment, that big
dive in consumer confidence in the
sentiment index last week. And of
course, we have economists debating just
how real the retail spending story is.
uh is it really being driven by higher
income earners, lower and moderate
income earners spending much less, much
more worried about jobs, job security
and inflation and high prices and the
like. So, it's mixed signals, but the
point of tomorrow's data for September
is expected to show that broadly
speaking uh on an aggregate level,
consumer spending remains robust. Anda,
can you just give us a sense of what
we're hearing uh from additional Fed
speak in terms of whether John Williams
truly was the base of the committee and
the idea that a December rate cut very
much still is on the table?
>> Very divided interpretation on that,
Lisa, as you say. I mean, on the one
hand, you have a camp making the point
that look, this was a quasi signal from
the leadership of the Federal Reserve
that at the very least a rate cut is on
the table in a serious way in in
December. you know, the president of New
York Fed is a permanent voter, seeing as
part of the top leadership as of right
now. As far as I know, the Fed chair is
not due to speak, for example. So,
people are saying maybe this was the
proxy for what the head of the Fed is
thinking about a rate cut in December.
But, of course, there are lots of others
who also make the point, Lisa, that hang
on, you know, it's clearly a very
divided committee right now. Uh, we know
there's a significant group who are more
worried about inflation than jobs. we're
not going to get new jobs or inflation
numbers ahead of that Fed meeting in
December. So that side argues, broadly
speaking, there's a case for staying on
hold and maybe seeing where things are
in in January. So I'd have to say it's
very very divided, very mixed
interpretation on it. Uh Lisa, there's a
class agree that this was an important
signal from the Fed, but plenty of Fed
watchers aren't looking at it that way
at the moment.
>> And uh thank you so much for being with
us. Sticking with the Fed, James
Eglehoff of BMP Parabel writing, "We
maintain our call for a Fed rate cut in
December as we think the rising
unemployment rate should ease concerns
about inadvertently overheating the
labor market over the short run." James
joins us now. James, how hard was it to
maintain that call after we heard from
uh from John Williams on Friday? Well,
>> it's great to be here. It's certainly a
much more rowdy and disorderly process
from the Fed than what we're accustomed
to. We're having to count votes, which
is something we're not accustomed to
doing with the Fed. At the same time, we
think that Pal wants to keep cutting. We
think he has the votes to do that. And
we think the data that we got last week
is giving a little bit of cover to him
to deliver one last rate cut to protect
the labor market from some gradual
deterioration and to protect the Fed
from a resurgence in this political
tension they've had between between them
and the White House. We think that PAL
prefers to do that. Now, there are risks
that are increasingly appearing that the
economy might pick up speed next year
and if the Fed continues to cut rates,
it might find itself wrongfooted going
into that. Um, we think that's a risk
that the cs on the committee are
increasingly vocal about, but there's
enough room in this data release in our
view to keep going one more time.
>> Can we just play out that scenario? If
we do get a reaceleration that suggests
that cuts would be an issue because
maybe it re accelerates inflation and
that happens at the time that you have a
new Fed chair put in regardless of who
it is Hasset Waller maybe even Besset
himself who is pounding the drum for
more cuts. How does that play out?
>> So look we when we think about next year
we take President Trump seriously and
literally we put his economic plan into
our baseline. It's why we were so early
to expect tariffs and tight immigration
policy. He's increasingly talking about
fiscal stimulus, about sending people
checks to help them with the cost of
living through the middle of next year.
Um, so for us, it's a really close call
about whether we should put those in our
forecast. If that happens, and it's big,
and President Trump tends to do things
big, um, you could easily see a pickup
in growth, a pickup in inflation, and a
pickup in hiring. And if that happened
and the Fed had moved to a stimulative
stance, which is what they seem to be on
course to unless they unless they pull
back, uh that could leave the Fed in the
wrong in the wrong having to take back
the cuts that they've already delivered
and that would be a very that would be
very messy process politically and for
the market and having that happen at the
same time as the Fed chair transition
would just be would be very difficult
for them. Does that also mean it's your
assumption and kind of given your first
answer of we're counting votes now. Is
it your assumption that this era of
consensus building led by a Fed chair
that that's effectively over?
>> Well, we don't know. But I think we're
increasingly moving to an era where the
Fed is more divided internally where
there are a lot of different
perspectives. Ultimately, if the data
breaks either way, so if we get clarity
from the data that the economy is
reacelerating or that it's slowing more
in a more nonlinear way, we think that
unity would be reestablished very
quickly and the Fed could move with
great decisiveness one direction or the
other. But right now with so much
ambiguity ambiguity in the data and with
the data coming in with such a long lag
due to the shutdown, there's a lot of
room for different interpretations and
that's what's feeding into this
environment that we're in right Neil Dut
of Renaissance Macro was on earlier and
he said that he's really worried that
the Fed's already missed the train and
that actually the US consumer is is
weakening quite considerably. That's
what they're telling you and their
sentiment. That's what you're seeing
when it comes to uh home sales, when it
comes to certain auto loan performances.
What do you make of that? Do you think
that there is some validity in that?
>> Well, I love Neil's work. I think the
when we look at the consumer over the
past year or two, the consumer cons
tells us that they're depressed, but
then they keep spending. And so
ultimately, we're reasonably confident
with where consumer spending is. on
consensus for tomorrow's retail sales
print. Uh when we look at the labor
market, which ultimately is where
everything comes from for the consumer,
uh we think the labor market is cruising
comfort at a comfortable cruising
altitude. Um all the signs we look at
are pointing green there. Um so we we
continue to look for resilience in the
consumer that could be backstopped with
fiscal spending and that's continuing to
be backstopped by by strong equity
market gains.
>> You know, people might be saying that
they're feel terrible and not spending,
but the people who feel pretty good are
the people who are wealthier and they
keep spending. And so there's this
question of how much the wealthier
cohorts of the economy are continuing to
spend because of the stock market. In
other words, the sort of closer tie for
the stock market and the economy than
traditionally is the case just simply
because that upper echelon of income
earners has been the one that has been
supporting all of the consumption that
we have seen so far. Do you think that
there is a greater connection right now
for the stock market continuing to go up
and the US uh economy continuing to gain
despite the fact that there are a lot of
people that are being left behind?
>> Look, we think that K-shaped dynamic
that you're referring to is part of the
story for the US that the high-end
consumer buoyed by gains and Nvidia and
other and other high-flying tech names
that they're continuing to spend. The
lower end the lower income consumer
that's more reliant on their labor
income is more anxious, is pulling back
a bit. We do think that if you were to
see the the equity market correct, which
is not our base case view, we think that
that would be that that could be
recessionary for the US economy and the
Fed would react with great aggression in
that scenario. Again, not our base case,
but we yes, we do think the economy is
more keyed to the AI theme um than than
it has been to tech in the past and that
the Fed would have to respond to that.
>> So, just to be clear, a Fed put would
very much so be in play in this
scenario. Well, I mean, I don't think
the Fed is necessarily there to protect
you in your equity investments, but the
Fed is there to protect the economy. So,
we think the Fed would readily read
through to the idea that if you were to
see a a big decline in equity market
that the consumer could pull back and
that may mean that there's more room for
rate cuts. So, we think that that read
across would be straightforward.
>> Well, on the other side of things of
concern about financial conditions being
too loose, it's hard to look at the
spending the hyperscalers have been able
to push through this bond market and
argue that these are very tight
financial conditions. How do you think
the Fed sees that in this economy that's
increasingly being geared to AI players
and the spending that they're doing?
>> So look, we think AI has kept the
economy out of recession this year. It's
not just about the AI capex. It's also
about the consumer as we discussed and
it's about broader business sentiment
where businesses expect a big
productivity boom just over the horizon
coming from AI being commercialized and
applied more broadly in the economy. And
this is something that came up in the
Fed minutes last week that if there was
to be a you know a moment of
disillusionment about AI from whatever
source that that could have fairly large
and quick effects on the economy. So we
think that they've starting to take note
of this. It was in the minutes palace
talked about it a few times at the press
conferences and you as far as we're
concerned for the moment steady as we go
but if there was to be a bump along the
road in the AI transition we think the
Fed would take note of that very
quickly. So just going forward, we do
get uh retail sales as well as PPI
tomorrow. A lot of people are saying
it's not going to really tip the needle
considering it's old. At the same time,
we do get jobless claims. We do get the
beige book on Wednesday. And then fast
forwarding, we get things like the Jolt
survey as well as ADP. Which data points
do you think are going to be most
instrumental for the Fed heading into
their December 10th meeting?
>> You're not going to like my answer, but
really none of them are going to be all
that helpful. They're all old. They're
all second order data. Um the mo the
data I think Powell was looking was
hoping would resolve the debate on
further easing was payrolls last week.
Um it could be read both ways. We we
have a gradually rising unemployment
rate that suggests there might be a
little bit more room for easing but then
headline job gains came in quite strong.
That's just the economy is doing great
and the argument that the labor markets
at stall speed is not panning out. So we
think this data is not going to resolve
the tensions and the disagreement at the
Fed. It's going to be a rowdy and
disorderly debate all the way through
the end. Ultimately, we think it's Pal's
call. U he's I we think he has the votes
to go either way and the data is not
going to ultimately make everyone move
to the same page.
>> In other words, if you're looking for
clarity, keep looking. James Ekhoff of
BMP Paraba, thank you so much for being
with us today. Right now, let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief.
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson saying
the Trump administration is planning a
healthc care announcement this week.
[music] Besson urging Republicans to
come up with a plan by January 30th to
address health insurance premiums.
[music]
The premiums are set to spike when
subsidies expire at the end of the year.
President Donald Trump is pushing back
on the possibility of television
networks being allowed to expand.
Responding to a Newsmax report that the
FCC is considering [music] a merger of
NextStar Media and Tegna. Trump writing
on social media, "If this would also
allow the radical left networks to
enlarge, I would not be happy. ABC and
NBC in particular are a disaster, a
virtual arm of the [music] Democrat
party." Meanwhile, Harvard is confirming
it's the latest victim in a string of
Ivy League cyber [music] attacks.
Following similar breaches at Princeton
and Penn, a database containing alumni
and donor contact and donation details
[music] was accessed via a fishing scam.
The university has since locked down its
system and is working with law
enforcement. That is your Bloomberg
brief. Up next, setting you up for the
day ahead. Plus, Osan Kuan of Wells
Fargo with a bullish outlook on equities
heading into the new year. Hint, it
sounds like the figure that we heard
from Mike Wilson as well. This is
[music] Bloomberg surveillance.
[music]
I'm not worried about the economy. What
I am a little bit worried about is that
the Fed is kind of dragging its feet.
The Fed needs to cut, but not to save
the economy, but to see the full
rotation into these lagging parts of the
market, the interest rate sensitive
parts of the market. We think the 7,800
is dependent on the earning cycle
broadening out. That was Mike Wilson of
Morgan Stanley talking about a 7,800
call in the S&P 500 for the end of next
year and talking about how it is
predicated on the idea of Fed rate cuts
and responding to a lack of liquidity
potentially with the Fed's balance
sheet. Counting down to the opening
bell, what [music] we do see right now
in markets is a lift to equities pretty
much across the board. You can see that
particularly [music] outperforming with
the NASDAQ 100 futures up 9/10en of a
percent. The Russell getting a bit as
well [music] up 3/10en of a percent. Uh
meanwhile, what you could see in bonds
is a little bit of the bid to safety,
the haven rally fading [music] just a
touch, some push back to the idea that
John Williams was signaling a December
rate cut. You are seeing yields
marginally [music] higher on the front
end. Two-year yields up just a basis
point to 351. A rally into the long end,
though, with 30-year [music] yields at
4.69%.
Here is the trading diary for the week
ahead. At 400 p.m. Eastern, President
Donald Trump [music] signing an
executive order. Tuesday, PPI and retail
sales. Wednesday, another round of
jobless claims, durable goods, and the
Federal Reserve releases its beige book,
[music] Fascinating Reading, Do It.
Thursday, US markets are closed for
Thanksgiving. Finally, Black Friday, the
unofficial start of the holiday shopping
season kicks off. Turning back to
markets, Osan Kuan is well of Wells
Fargo is looking ahead to next year,
[music] expecting the S&P 500 to reach
guess what 7,800 by year end 2026,
writing, "Valuation is rich, but it's
only half the equation. [music] The
other half is EPS growth." Osang joins
us now. Thank you so much for being with
us and uh and it's going to be a really
interesting period into your end. You
talk about 7,800. You have a slightly
different take than what Mike Wilson was
talking about. How much is this
predicated on a rotation out of the
Magnificent 7 into the rest of the
universe? How much is this predicated on
overall earnings per share growth?
>> Yeah, so I think 2026 is going to be a
year of two halves. I think the first
half of the year is going to be
reflation. We call it the hope trade. Uh
because I don't think it's going to be
the one that actually sticks. uh in the
I think the second half of the year
we're actually calling for an AI bubble
trade uh as the vest starts to expand
its balance sheet um and I think o over
the past you know few weeks the market
selloff was more driven by liquidity
than anything else so our liquidity
indicator actually saw the sharpest
contraction since October uh since 2022
um and that's been a leading indicator
of S&P multiples and you know with
sulfur spread blowing up you know
funding market stress and all those
things that's essentially what happens
you know If if when liquidity drains up,
everyone's risk curve shifts to the left
and the assets the most speculative
assets that's far out the risk curve,
those those assets get sold off the
most. So things like Bitcoin, quantum,
and all those things and that speaks to
that that basically speaks to the the
lack of liquidity in the market. And I
think that's going to turn around going
forward, which is bullish for equities.
Well, to to that point, Howard Marx gave
a really interesting interview to the FT
this morning where he said the people
who are buying in this market have been
traders and not investors. So, it's not
long-term holders that have really been
participating in the meltup that we've
seen until last week and the week
before. Do you see that same contour of
the market
>> and does that fragility carry on into
2026?
>> Yeah, so it's re really been traders and
retail investors and the latter is
probably going to stick uh for longer
term. I think it's a secular bull market
that we're starting to see more
participation from retail investors and
you know over the past few weeks during
the selloff too we have seen retail
investors buying up buying the dip. Uh
so I think that's the big support for
the market going forward as well.
>> You also write that value stocks are
abundant that over 50% of this market
trades at a discount versus the 5-year
average. We've seen so many false dawn
with value as a factor doing well. What
reinvigorates it this time around? Yeah,
I mean I don't think value is going to
do better in 2026. I think it's really
this first half the year, the reflation
hope trade that we talked about because
there's a lot of physical tailwind
that's coming in in the first half the
year. So we're estimating about 80 basis
point of tailwind uh from physical in
2026 for the full year and most of that
is actually in Q1 through the tax
return. That's going to be bigger
because of OBVBB and because of that I
think we're going to see reflation hope
trade going forward. So we actually
double upgraded energy and materials. I
think retail is going to do well. Uh I
think some of the short cycle
industrials that have really been beaten
down over the past few years. I think
those are going to do well. I don't
think it's going to stick though because
reflation means rates are probably going
to be elevated. Um and surprisingly this
actually has been the most race
sensitive manufacturing downturn in
history. And I think for a sustained
rotation out of AI we need the
manufacturing PMI to really recover. And
for that to happen, this actually has
been very rate sensitive and this
actually has been a housing driven turn
down housing driven downturn in
manufacturing. So I think housing
ultimately has to come back. So for that
to happen, we need lower rates.
>> So this is really interesting because
actually you and Mike Wilson are saying
something very similar which is that
there was a complete withdrawal of
liquidity or complete uh backtrackity
that caused this recent sell-off. It's
going to force the Fed's hand
ultimately. If this continues, the Fed
is going to have to cut rates and
potentially use our balance sheet. Do
you agree with the balance sheet point
as well?
>> Yeah, so we're our house view is the Fed
starting to expand its balance sheet in
April uh buying the T bills and I think
that so basically that our our AI bubble
trade in the second half of the year is
really predicated on the Fed starting to
expand its balance sheet. Uh more
liquidity basically means better for
speculative assets and longduration
assets uh which is basically AI. So I
don't think we have yet seen the real
bubble trade in AI. So far the NASDAQ's
outperformance essentially since the end
of the tech bubble has been driven by
better fundamentals and better earnings.
It it wasn't necessarily multiple driven
and I think we could potentially see uh
a real AI bubble trade in the second
half of next year with the Fed expanding
its balance sheet.
>> Why did liquidity get so poor? We're
talking about how anyone under the sun
can borrow money until, you know, the
record scratch of, you know, the
hundreds of billions of dollars being
sold in AI suddenly. Why now?
>> Yeah. There there it was kind of like a
perfect storm, a combination of a lot of
things. So, first there was QT uh which
is going to end in like 5 days now. Um
and and there was the debt sealing
resolution. So, there was a lot of uh
debt issuance to refill TGA. Um and the
government shut down. So the government
was collecting taxes but not
distributing back to the economy. So
there that was a liquidity suck also a
lot of those cockroaches that we saw. So
the banks were getting more conservative
when it comes to lending. Uh so we saw
the funding market really being
stressed. Uh we saw the sulfur spread
really blowing up it back in October. Uh
so it was kind of like a combination of
all those things. Looking forward the
government is now reopen. QT is ending.
We're probably going to see the Fed
starting to talk more about the the
funding market and they already have
started and potentially increasing its
balance sheet in April next year and I
think the risk is sooner. Uh so if that
happens I think the liquidity issues are
going to get resolved.
>> Osuan wonderful to hear your thoughts.
Thank you so much. Come back again soon.
Osuan of Wells Fargo on those funding
conditions. The idea of lack of
liquidity kind of flies in the face of
what we'd heard for earlier this year
but certainly [music] a consistent theme
this morning.
>> Yeah. that everyone could go to these
debt markets and be okay. How long does
that last? Do people allow the AI giants
to continue to pour [music] that level
of debt into these funding markets?
>> Yeah, a real question though of funding
markets versus corporate debt issuance.
It's very different. A lot of a lot of
things to think through. Coming up
tomorrow, we can discuss it all with
Peter Shear of Academy Securities, John
Bilton of JP Morgan Asset Management,
Samantha Dart of Goldman Sachs, and Pujo
Surum of Barclays. This was Bloomberg
surveillance on this Monday. Good
morning.
>> [music]